There's a quote in Lean that says, "Stop starting and start finishing." It's been around for quite some time, and it's something that I use all the time with Scrum teams. While it is predominantly a Lean thing, there's no reason why you can't have Lean stuff in empirical stuff. There's no reason why those two things can't go together, and I think it's really important for teams that are doing anything. Whatever type of work that we're doing, we need to focus on finishing stuff, not on starting more stuff.

The traditional idea is that the more work we have underway, the more that we're doing, which means that people and teams often juggle multiple things in what they do. When you're juggling multiple things, you tend to find that less stuff gets done because you spend a bunch of cognitive cycles context switching. If you think of the work that Gerald Weinberg did in his book "Systems Thinking," you might recall a graph that shows the number of projects underway and the amount of time that we lose to context switching. It's about 20% per thing. So, if you're doing two things at once, you're going to lose 20% of your time, and it's gone to context switching and your cognitive load.

You're in the shower in the morning, and instead of the back of your brain solving the complex cognitive problems that will help your business be successful, the back of your brain is thinking about how to juggle these two or three projects. How do I keep these three projects' stakeholders happy? If the back of your brain is occupied with juggling those things, you're spending less time and focus on solving the actual problem that we're here to solve, which provides your business with value. There's no value to your business in juggling five things; all they care about is whether they are getting the value they expect.

There is a big push, especially from leadership, but I think there's a little bit of a fallacy there. I don't think leadership pushes it; I think middle management pushes it because they are under pressure to get more stuff done. If you're sitting on a team and you have multiple masters, with multiple people telling you what to do, then you're the one who has to juggle those multiple things. One of the things we talk about in Scrum is having a single product owner. That single product owner is the focus for what we are going to do next, what we are working on.

Depending on how your organisation is structured, this is not ideal. If you have multiple voices in your organisation, then the product owner becomes the funnel that allows the team to work on a single stream. The product owner has to deal with all the different stakeholders. I'm not saying the team won't help; the rest of the developers will help with that. But the product owner becomes that final say, that point of knitting together all those different ideas and threads into a single cohesive story so that the team has focus and can maximise the value.

Lean talks about this as well, discussing having a definition of workflow. If you're thinking of a Kanban strategy, you're going to have that definition of your workflow. You decide what it's going to be, and you're effectively going to decide those things as well, like what things we work on. We're going to limit our work in process for sure, but then how do we decide which thing we pick? A lot of teams pick the oldest thing; whatever has been hanging around the longest is what we're going to pick. From the options, the stuff we haven't started yet, we might order that by whatever we decide as a team that maximises the value.

You might order it by age, but I'm not sure that's the best idea. Ordering it by value would be best; have the highest value stuff we’re going to pick next, and then we pull things based on that value and need. Lean focuses on the idea of the virtual product owner for creating that loom, whereas Scrum talks about it as an individual, a person who is going to do that. But the outcome is the same: you have a much tighter, cohesive story and focus for the team, which is really important.

That's why we need to stop starting work and start finishing work. Ultimately, the more work we have in progress, the longer it takes to deliver. You can see that if you've ever used a cumulative flow diagram. You can very clearly see when the lines of the amount of work you're starting and the amount of work you're finishing get further apart. The amount of things you have in progress is increasing. If you're getting further apart, then you're starting more work than you're finishing.

If the lines are getting further apart, then the horizontal line is also getting further apart, and the horizontal line is your approximate average cycle time. As you start more things and haven't finished them, all of the things in the system take longer to deliver, and that's not what we want. We want to have as short a time as possible that we're working on things because that increases the throughput, the stuff delivered for the business. If we're focused on valuable stuff, it hopefully maximises the value that we're delivering to the business.

We can go through that process really quickly, which means the business gets predictability because they know if they give us something important and we take it on immediately, they know roughly how long it's going to take to deliver it. It will be short because we're focusing on shortening that cycle time. I think that’s the idea behind stopping starting work and starting finishing work. It matters for Lean teams, it matters for Scrum teams, and it matters for all teams. Stop starting work and start finishing it.

If you want to have a discussion about your unique needs or situation, then please book a call or visit us at Naked Agility. We also have our immersive and traditional public classes on our website, and we'd love to hear from you.