So the applying flow metrics for Scrum course is an amazing class about Kanban from the proamband.org about how you would leverage the metrics and capabilities that a Kanban strategy brings within the context of a Scrum team. We're going to be talking about how to leverage the different data aspects in Sprint planning, in Daily Scrum, especially the other events, retrospective, what tools you can use around product backlog refinement to help you increase flow, how you track progress towards critical dates and deliverables, and to identify opportunities for the team to ask more interesting questions. 

And that's the purpose of the applying flow metrics with Scrum course. It exists mainly because there are lots of people who are doing Scrum in their organisations and they're really struggling to deliver value at the end of each Sprint, to focus on that value delivery. A Kanban strategy enables you to focus on and increase the flow of value delivery through your system. 

So it really, really, really benefits Scrum teams. I wouldn't want to be doing Scrum without this capability. It really helps teams deliver on that value, right? And it's really core focus on delivering value, not tasks, but actual value to the customers. 

So you should be able to increase your ability to deliver, make your stakeholders happier, and your business happier using these techniques. If you want to have a discussion about your unique needs or situation, then please book a call or visit us at nakedagility.com. We also have our immersive and traditional public classes on our website, and we'd love to hear from you.