Oh, I kind of like that question. What's the difference between a newbie Scrum Master and a professional Scrum Master? I feel like neither of those things exist, right? I think that's where I would go initially, and I would say that there's no such thing as a newbie Scrum Master. You become a Scrum Master because you've demonstrated that competence in your team to be able to help them be more effective, right? So you're not really a newbie; you're just picking up that accountability of the Scrum Master. You are an experienced, effective professional at that point when you pick up the accountability of the Scrum Master. 

So I feel like that newbie is a bit of a thing, and really there's no such thing as a professional Scrum Master. That's just a Scrum Master, right? Just as there's no such thing as a newbie Scrum Master, a professional Scrum Master is Scrum.org's brand of how they explain things. But if you look at the Scrum Guide, it doesn't talk about professional Scrum Master or true Scrum Master or certified Scrum Master, right? It doesn't talk about any of those things because there is just the Scrum Master.

And I think if we were to look at professional Scrum Master and see, well, what is it? It's trying to create that idea around we need to approach the role of a Scrum Master from a professional's perspective. It's not just, we're not just playing the Scrum Master; we're not just decking around as the Scrum Master. It's a professional role that provides value to the organisation. It provides value to the team. It's picking up accountabilities that perhaps if everybody on the team picked them up, because maybe everybody on your team is capable of picking up the accountabilities of the Scrum Master, the team would have a hard time getting anything done if everybody's picking that up. 

So that's one person who the team respects, says, "Well, I'll pick up some of these things and go sort them out so that you can all focus on delivering valuable product and being as effective as you can at delivering valuable product." And here's some things that I'm going to pick up and help with and help enable you as a team to do the stuff that we need to do, right? And I think that's that idea that Scrum.org is trying to sell of the professional Scrum Master. 

Of professional Scrum is that we're doing the thing rather than going, "Well, you know, we, you know, I'm going to be the Scrum Master," but in actual fact, it's Sprint planning. I'm going to, you know, tell the team, "Right, you're not taking on enough work this Sprint. I'm sure you can fit some more work in there." Oh, Bob, have you, you don't have enough stuff assigned to you? I think some more stuff, you can take on some more stuff this Sprint, right? And that idea of, well, that's not Scrum Master, right? That's, that's, well, I guess I might say that's a project manager. But even if you were a project manager and you were doing that, you kind of suck at project management too. 

So that's just somebody who sucks. That's not a professional. When you're a professional, you figure out what are the things I can do to help my team be more effective, right? Help the group of people that I'm working with or that I'm managing, right? It doesn't matter what terminology you use. How do you help that group be more effective? Stop doing things that are less effective or try and change things in your organisation that are less effective and increase their effectiveness. That's really all we're talking about from a professional Scrum Master perspective is do the thing. Don't just mess about the edges of the thing; actually do it.

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else Agile, Scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.