What does failure look like for a product owner? Um, I think it's very quantifiable what failure looks like for a product owner. Um, if you see a product that has poor quality or low value, inconsistent delivery, probably a sign of a failing product owner. Um, if the product owner is sitting there just writing the requirements, I'm not doing much else, they're just writing the requirements, perhaps ordering them, but they're taking orders from somebody else, that's probably a failing product owner.

If you ask people in the organisation or even on the team what is the vision of the product, what is it that we're trying to achieve, and they don't have an answer or say, "Well, that sits on the wiki," right? If people don't intrinsically know what that is, then we're probably failing as a product owner. Um, if we're, as the product owner, not in control of the evolution and direction of the product, um, I maybe wouldn't put that in the absolute failing category, but we're definitely not doing very well as a product owner if we're not able to influence and control the direction of the product based on our understanding of the market, right? That's something that we really do need to be able to do.

Um, not taking actual ownership of the product, this is our product, we're building this product, we are making decisions, we're taking the risks, we're spending the money. It needs to be our product, so taking that ownership of that is really important. Um, and if it's all about perception over reality, then that's definitely a failing product owner.

Um, do we want the numbers to look good, or do we want to actually deliver value in the product, which brings in more revenue, brings in more capability to the organisation? Um, there's a lot of focus on vanity metrics in the industry, and metrics, if you don't know that expression, are metrics that just make us look good, like a burn down being on the line, right? So what does that actually tell us about the product? Can you be on that line and things still suck? Yes, of course you can.

So let's focus on vanity metrics more on the reality of the product, what's going on, what we need to do. Like, uh, Satya, um, writing down eight billion dollars for Nokia, that's looking at the reality of the situation, um, and understanding it, rather than reaching for fairies and magic that we're going to be successful with this. No, we're done; we need to cut our losses on that.

That's what being a product owner, that's what a failing product owner looks like, right? Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else, Agile, Scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.
