Do you think that we are in the slope of Enlightenment in Garner's hype cycle? I would maybe have to say not yet. I think that's going to be my answer. I think we're still in the trough of disillusionment, right? And I think the reason I think that is perhaps I'm wrong, right? But every time I turn on my LinkedIn, I'm reading the feeds, I'm seeing what's going on. Every time I look, it's, "Scrum sucks, Scrum doesn't work, Safe sucks, Safe doesn't work, Agile 2.0 is the way forward, Agile 1.0 is dead, Agile is dead." Right? There's all these types of posts. There's still a significant, and I think majority of people are still in that trough of disillusionment.

Does that mean that lots of companies are not already in the slope of Enlightenment? I think they are. I think lots and lots of organisations out there, lots of people are in that slope of Enlightenment already. But there are lots of organisations out there who just haven't made it yet. There are people out there who are still disillusioned that they can't have twice the features in half the time. Jeff's book title didn't help with that, right? Because it sets a level of expectation. Lots of people don't even read the book, which is a little bit going on that's not really what it's about, right? But that belief of what Agile was supposed to deliver, most organisations have not really worked out the hard work that is involved in actually doing it and getting there. It's not a magic wand that's going to solve their problems.

So I think there's still a huge number of people in that trough of disillusionment. I love that phrase. But as I think, I think we're definitely on that upward turn of that slope. There's definitely more, certainly the early adopters and even, could I say, the late majority? Some of the early majority are already in that Enlightenment mode, that they realise that it's not all the hype that is important, but it's the fundamental change in the way we work and the way we understand how we do things. And that realisation that it's people that solve problems, not tools, right? It's people that solve problems, not bureaucracy.

Putting truly, truly putting people first and being willing to dismantle whatever processes, practices, or tools, ways of doing things are getting in the way of people actually doing the work that they need to do and helping the business be successful, right? I think that's where we are right now. But we're certainly on the little up of that slope, I think.

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else Agile, Scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.