Of why is the Professional Agile Leadership Essentials course a natural evolution for an experienced product owner. It starts to bring in, um, again as product owners become more advanced in product management, right, as they get more skilled within the organisation, as they get more respected within the organisation as having that product management feel for them, they'll start to be, um, given more accountability, right, or have being able to pick up more accountability, uh, that's enabled for them. And they start moving into a more leadership role as well. 

And quite often, I know people who are product owners, um, who are not just product owners; they are systemic leaders inside of their organisation. My favourite product owner is, uh, Brian Harry, who is the product unit manager of the Azure DevOps team at Microsoft of the developer division at Microsoft, um, and he had something like 650, 700 people, um, that reported to him. 

Um, and he's the product owner, he's the budget holder, he's the direction maker, the strategy designer, right? Even though he's taking lots of input from lots of different people, he's the one that has the final say. So he is the product owner, but he's also the leader. He's the people that everybody in that engineering department looked to. He was the one that created, I'm using the wrong phrase, created the culture that everybody worked within. But that's not really the right phrasing because he didn't create it; he created a system within which, uh, the culture, the desired culture, thrived, right? 

And that's part of leadership, right, is creating the systems that we all work within. That's slightly bigger than just being a product owner. So I think it is a logical evolution; it's the next step, uh, from product ownership, um, that allows, um, for a better understanding of that holistic organisational view. 

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else Agile, Scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.