So who should lead the Sprint review at why and how? I think that's a great question. I'll start with the purpose of the Sprint review, right? The purpose of the Sprint review is to get the best possible information from the stakeholders in order to maximize the value of the next Sprint. Right, the product backlog is in the best possible state. It's got all of the things that we need in it. We've absorbed the, the, we've brought together the information from, you know, what we've done in the last two weeks in the product, what's happened in the last two weeks in the business, what's happened in the last two weeks in the market, and we're mushing that together and actually updating the product backlog. So when we walk out of Sprint planning, we have that updated as up-to-date as we can, as effective as we can put it backlog, so we maximize the value that we deliver.

Um, so then the question of who is to lead it? Who on the scrum team is accountable for value delivery, for maximizing the value of the work done by the scrum team? Product owner, right? So I would normally expect the product owner to be the one leading the Sprint review. I mean, it can be anybody on the team. I have no problem with that, right? But the product owner is the accountable party for maximizing the value of the work done, so it's in their best interest to make sure or enable the Sprint review is as valuable as possible. And quite often that means they are the facilitator, right? They are the ones who are getting the most out of it, right? Because that's their accountability, they're ensuring their accountability.

So perhaps they should create the flow of the Sprint review. What do you, if you're a product owner, what do you need from your stakeholders this Sprint? Right, that's what you're trying to get to. How are you going to create and organize that event so that you maximize the chance of you getting the information that you need in the time that you need it, having the conversations that you need during that event?

Um, so how do you run it? Wow, that any way you like, as long as you get to the outcome, right? I don't really care how you run it. So some teams do demos, some teams don't do demos, right? Because they're already in production. Perhaps a flow that I kind of like, um, I have it documented on my website, but a flow I kind of like is you need to use, you know, the product owner should be setting the scene at the start, right? What's the current vision of the product? Let's reset. This is what we're talking about, is the vision. That's what we're trying to get towards. What's the current product goal, right? What's our current short-term or intermediate strategic goal that we're trying to get to?

Um, and then what was our tactical goal this Sprint? What was it that we were actually focused on? What's the outcome that we told the stakeholders at the beginning, the singular Sprint goal? What's the outcome that we're going to focus on? And then perhaps the team do a demo showing, you know, what it was, what we created in the last two weeks that's pretty cool. 

Um, but also we need to get feedback on that demo. That's almost more important than anything else, is getting feedback on that demo. Um, but then if that's the end of your Sprint review, then you're missing out on a lot of extra stuff because perhaps we need to have a conversation about, yeah, we need to have a conversation about what's happened in the business, what the stakeholders are coming to bring information, what information can we get out of the stakeholders about things that are coming up in the future, things that might be talked about in the business, changes in the market that we can bring into our story.

Um, and all the whole throughout this, we need to be actually updating the product backlog. So I think there's lots of ways to run that, but those are the key information pieces that we need to get by the end of it. So run it however you like, whoever you like can facilitate it, but ultimately the accountability we're fulfilling here is the product owner's.

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else agile, scrum, or devops, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.