Imagine, what is the hardest part of working with a brand new Scrum team? I guess it depends on whether you're talking about a team member joining the team or like a Scrum Master, right? Your coach working with a brand new Scrum team, it's probably both pretty similar. It's what we think we know. I think it's the same is true when you work with any group of people new that you... it's... I always, this is one of my tests, right? I ask teams, people, companies, I ask them how they think they're doing. It's grammar, Agile or whatever. And if they say, "We're awesome at it," I know it's going to be a complete car crash. 

And if they say, "Well, you know, we don't think we're doing that well. We really need some extra help. We're trying to do different things, but we're hitting stumbling blocks," you know, it's going to be absolutely awesome, right? Because they've got to that point where they realise what they don't know. And that's a big inflection point for teams. 

So when you're working with teams, new teams, the biggest gap is what they think they know. They think that they have to do user stories. They think that they should be doing planning poker and story points. They think they should be doing estimation. They think they should be doing burn downs. They think they should be monitoring their velocity, and all of those things are nothing to do with Scrum, right? They're barely mentioned in the Scrum Guide. Burn downs are mentioned; I'm not sure velocity is, but burn downs are mentioned as a, "Here's a list of things you might do." 

So they're not intrinsic to the process at all; they're strategic choices you might make, right? And trying to help them understand the difference between that and the fluff, right? So the core thing that we need to understand as individuals, as teams, as members of teams is that we're trying to create, we're trying to leverage empiricism, right? It's a scientific method. We're going to do something very small, we're going to get it to the people who are going to use it, and then we're going to analyse their usage. And maybe they're going to tell us feedback. We're going to analyse their usage, and then we're going to change what we do based on that. That loop, that's an empirical loop. 

And that knowledge, that understanding seems to be fundamentally missing from most teams that are doing Scrum, right? They don't... they never learned or never understood the foundational elements, and they're just looking at the mechanisms in Scrum and just following mechanical Scrum. So trying to get them to understand that all of the mechanical parts are just... so the bollocks. You need to make sure you get the empiricism, feedback loops, shortening the time to market, getting that, closing that feedback loop, closing that time to learn, right? Those are the things that actually matter. 

And whether you're focusing on Kanban or Scrum or kind of an Ann Scrum or Lean or whatever, it's all fundamentally the same thing that we're trying to achieve. Those underlying foundations, if we understand them, everything else is just, "Right, what would we like to do in the way we do it in order to be successful?" And bringing those foundations in when people have already built houses on top is much harder.