One of the myths in Scrum is that we have no governance. This kind of leads on to the bigger myth that just because it's not in the Scrum Guide, doesn't mean you're not supposed to do it. Scrum does absolutely have governance; it has small amounts of governance baked in, right? But in general, you need governance to build your product. So it's kind of correct to say Scrum doesn't have a lot of governance. There's a very small amount of governance built in, but if you want to be successful at building products, if you're, for example, building products within the healthcare space, then you're going to have to worry about your ability to support HIPAA, to support the regulatory compliance that comes from the outside. That's governance imposed on your organization from the outside that you have no control of.

You're going to have things that your organization does internally. Perhaps your organization has usability guidelines; perhaps they have UX guidelines for how all our products' UX is going to function so that anybody interacting with our software already knows how it's going to work because it follows the same rules. Then that's internal governance that has been applied to your product. You may have business rules; that’s another form of governance. You might have particular ways in which you interact with the market as a business. That's one of your unique selling points, your unique engagement points with the market, and those ways of working have to be implemented in your systems. That's internal governance.

Just because Scrum talks about minimising that governance doesn't mean it's not there, right? You just have just enough governance to support the business need. It's when you have way too much governance that you start running into a problem. That's why in very large organisations, for example, banks, they really struggle to move towards Scrum and agile practices because they're encumbered by the baggage that they can't put down. Royal Bank of Scotland in the UK was, I think, the first bank in the world; it's currently the fifth biggest bank in the world, and they've been going for over 200 years. Can you imagine the procedural and compliance baggage that that organisation has? Many of it around for no other reason than nobody's revisited it in a long time; nobody's challenged it in a really long time.

How many policies and procedures do you have in your organisation that nobody knows where they came from or what they're for, or who owns that policy or procedure, or why? It's just the way we do things here. Those are the things that we want to challenge. We want to challenge anything that gets in the way of inhibiting our ability to deliver value. Those are the things we want to prevent. Those are the policies, practices, and procedures, the governance that we want to reduce to the absolute minimum.

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else agile, Scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.