Agile is not a new thing by any means. One could absolutely argue that it is a very old thing. Prior to the Industrial Revolution, although it's not totally to do with that, things were done in small, Mom and Pop shops all over the world. Your local cobbler made your shoes, and your local cobbler understood fundamentally your needs as an individual because they knew who you were. They knew your life story, and they created goods just for you. As we scaled up, we lost that human connection between things, and a lot of people blame Frederick Winslow Taylor. He’s not strictly at fault; it wasn't his intent to dehumanise the work environment. It was just the outcome of the practices that he pushed and how they were interpreted.

Agile is a thing that has always been true for most of human existence. The way you get stuff done is you figure it out. If you don't know how to do something, you go try some stuff and figure out what works best and what doesn't. Ultimately, it's an evolutionary story because the people in the world that were able to do things better perhaps survived, and those that were not able to do it did not. Those that adapted to farming and new farm equipment and were able to increase the yield of the crop prospered. Those that weren't able to do that or couldn't figure it out did not. That's fundamentally how evolutionary theory works and how humans interact with the world around us. If we're successful, we do well at something; if we don't do well, we're not.

So, agile's not a new thing, but even as far back as the late 1900s, they were talking about harnessing the social aspects of work in order to maximise our ability to deliver value. If you want to look up some of the theory and stories around that, it's Maryanne Fetter you want to be looking up. She was a contemporary and perhaps a little bit in opposition to Frederick Winslow Taylor at the time, and her work was largely lost by the 1930s. However, there was really a resurgence of this idea. The thing with good ideas is they'll keep coming back even if we forget them.

In the '90s, XP came along in the software world because it was very obvious that it wasn't working. We weren't able to successfully and repeatedly build high-quality, valuable products without copious amounts of waste. We had lots of unhappy people. I think Ken Schwaber talks about it as "hateful work." We hated the companies we worked for; we hated the work that we were doing. The managers hated the work that they were doing. Everybody just hated it because we were dealing with complexity, and everything would always go wrong. When you try to control chaos, much like a lion tamer, you might get eaten. In fact, the likelihood is that you're going to get eaten at some point if you keep trying to do it that way, and that happened in project after project.

When I started out in the software industry, right when I graduated university, there was talk of this idea of a "death march." A death march project is a project that every single person on it already understands before we hardly started that it is dead on arrival. It's not going anywhere; it's not going to be successful. We're not going to be able to do this. It's not going to cost what they think it's going to cost; it's not going to be done in that time; it's not going to have the features that they think it's going to have. But we have to do it anyway because that's what we're paid to do, and somebody bean counter higher up in the organisation has made the decision.

This resurgence culminated in the '90s with XP, which was really the start of the bigger resurgence, although it had been mulling around before that. Then Scrum eventually culminated in the Agile Manifesto in 2001. The manifesto really defined the principles for a new way of working, one that focused on dealing with complexity and the unknown with empathy and with connection to people, bringing that social aspect that Maryanne Fetter wrote about nearly 100 years before.

However, it was predicated on competence. There was an assumption of the inherent craftsmanship and competence of the participants that we were going to build on. However, the demand, especially when I graduated university in 2000 and started my first job in 2001, for engineers, product managers, and leaders that had both the competence and understood this new way of working far outstripped the supply in the market. It still does. Part of the reason it still does is that we didn't focus on the competence of who we needed to do these things to make these changes and fundamentally support them from a leadership perspective, from an engineering perspective, and from our goals and discovery.

Because we didn't focus on that level of competence, it's largely starting to fall apart. That realisation is not quite like the dot-com bubble bursting; that was a money thing. This is a competence thing. Of the hundreds of thousands of people that are currently in roles where they're expected to either participate in craft or oversee, the level of competence is a tiny percentage of people in that space. It's starting to show in organisations where they are looking for what they are getting for their money because we're paying perhaps a lot of high-price salaries for engineers, product managers, and leadership. We're not getting the return on investment that we're expecting, and we need to get the return on investment; otherwise, it's not worth spending that money. That's how business functions in our world.

If we can't justify the cost, we're going to have to get rid of the thing that's costing us, and at the moment, it looks like it's not the engineers and not the product managers, but it's the leaders, the Scrum Masters, the coaches, those folks that just don't necessarily have the level of competence that's demanded to fulfil the role and be successful. They may have had enough to convince the people that were hiring them that didn't necessarily understand what they needed, but as it turns out, they couldn't do it.

It's systemic at the moment, and that's what we're seeing in the industry. There's a wide-ranging general reset of our understanding of what these competencies are, and most people are coming up lacking. That's kind of what we intended to do when we were originally talking about agile back in 2001. The outcome has not been that; it's been a commercialised, watered-down lip service-based result, and that's where we're at right now.
