How will a PSM-2 class challenge your sub-assumptions the most? I think fundamentally, people's assumptions about what they think a Scrum Master is, what they think a Scrum Master does, and how they think a Scrum Master guides the team. The number of times that we have to hit on those myths of what people think Scrum Masters are, right? I mean, are Scrum Masters or Jira admins? That's a good one. 

So, realising they're not a Jira admin, they're not there to solve the team's problems. Right? Get impediments out of the way of the team is apparently the Scrum Master's problem. It's like, oh no, they're there to cause the removal of the impediments, right? Which means they probably don't do the work themselves; they're helping the team do the work themselves and effectively doing themselves out of a job, right? You want to be invisibly present. That's a great phrase that I love from the PSM-2: being invisibly present, right? 

You're there, you provide value, you help shape and guide the way people are organising around the work. But then, if you're off for two weeks, the work still happens. If you're away for two weeks, the retrospective still happens, the daily Scrum still happens because the people on the team understand the value that it provides rather than just being told to do it by the Scrum Master and having to turn up and be told what to do, right? 

That, for me, is the biggest transition from Scrum Master into the advanced Scrum Master world. Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else Agile, Scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.