Another ghost of Agile past is burndown charts. You know, I always, always had a problem with burndown charts. There was just something niggling at me that there was something wrong with them. Everybody seemed to talk like they were the holy grail of monitoring a team. But when you start thinking about just-in-time planning, just-in-time planning doesn't just extend to the product backlog, it also extends to the sprint backlog. And if we do just-in-time planning, how could you possibly have a burndown that reflects the team, the work that the team's working on? Think about it. The way a burndown works is it goes from top left to bottom right. It goes from a list of all the stuff that we need to deliver burns down towards that trajectory of we've delivered all the stuff in it. In order to do that we have to understand all the stuff that's going to come into the sprint backlog at the start. This is why you see lots of teams and organisations fixated on that once you've brought things into the sprint backlog you can't change the scope. Crap, right? The idea that you can't, that if you're going to remove something from the sprint backlog you have to bring in something of equal size and all of that stuff that is really really just smacks of traditional project thinking right we've got scope we want to maintain that scope we want to control that scope so we're gonna have this burndown that we want to be on this line of that and it's just just a crap. The worst way to do burndowns is if you are burning down hours on tasks. That's probably the worst form because it implies that we've built all of the tasks with all of the hours at the beginning of the sprint. And I don't mean all, right? There's at least one person out there is sitting there thinking, but Martin, we don't plan all of this stuff, but maybe we get 90% of the way there. I'm saying 90% is crap. I'm saying 70% is crap. I'm saying 50% is probably crap, right? We discover more by doing than we could by thinking up front. That's the fundamental context within which Agile sits. And anybody that thinks that they can build products that don't exist yet and have a higher than 50% probability of the things you bring in being the things you need is, I don't know what they're smoking but it would be great to get some of that stuff. Because it's just not how the world works. How the world works. When we have that high degree of probability that things will be different, low predictability in what we think's gonna happen and what actually happens, we need a different way to manage the work. We need to manage the work empirically and in any empirical process which Scrum is founded on empiricism, most of Agile is founded upon empiricism, in any empirical process you're not going to know what it's going to take to do something. That's the first part. So if we're thinking we can create a whole big list of hours at the start and then burn down and see that we're on that trajectory, that's not gonna happen. 

So a solution for that that many teams have tried or many teams that I've seen have tried is to do burn down in story points so instead of burning down the hours they burn down the story points so it's slightly less granular or go even more less granular and burn down in stories right so you get that more jagged line rather than a smooth line but the real and that's a little bit better at least if we're 50% way through the sprint and we're 50% delivered value that's probably the best that the burndown is going to get right in in that world where we've brought 10 things into the sprint and we're gonna deliver 10 things if we're halfway through the sprint and we've delivered five of them things are going good if we're halfway through the sprint and we've delivered three of them, things are not going good, right? That's probably, there's a lot of assumptions in there that things are of similar size, there's all kinds of assumptions in there, but that's probably the best of that world. 

But the reality is that all of those are predicated on the idea that you've decided what that thing is up front. You've decided how many of those things you're going to bring in up front. And whether it's hours or story points or stories, that's not how it works. Most teams have a higher degree of volatility. They're not just thinking about the value that they're delivering in the sprint, their sprint goal. They're also thinking about how much technical debt do we have to pay off? How much refactoring do we maybe have to do as we're building this product? They're thinking about that, those little bugs that keep, you know, that steady stream of small, inconsequential but valuable defects that keep coming through the system you don't want them building up so you've got to take some of them on and responding to the business and the business needs something and be able to respond to it or production issues or there's too many ors the reality is you are much better focusing on the flow of value through your system and maintaining a steady consistent flow as much as you can within the bounds of the work that you're doing, than on trying to meet some arbitrary top left to bottom right graph, burn down. That's just ridiculous, and it is one of the ghosts of Agile past. 

If you are being haunted by these ghosts of Agile past, we can help you exercise them or find a coach, consultant, or trainer who can. Don't let these phantoms undermine the effectiveness of your value delivery. The longer they linger, the more they'll haunt your team's progress. Send me an email to martin at nkdagility.com and we will help you get to the bottom of it. If you want to have a discussion about your unique needs or situation, then please book a call or visit us at nakedagility.com. We also have our immersive and traditional public classes on our website and we'd love to hear from you.