The questions, if you could teach just one thing about Scrum, what would it be? I think it wouldn't be Scrum at all, it would be the first principles, right? It would be empiricism and complexity. That's what I would teach. And in fact, that's probably what I spend the majority of my time in the APS, in when I'm just talking to people, engaging with leadership, that's what I spend the majority of my time talking about is empiricism and complexity.

And if you have those fundamental ideas of empiricism and complexity, the understanding, the realization that no matter what way you choose to do stuff, it might not always work, it might have different outcomes depending on the current circumstances, the prevailing wind, right? Then you realise why people realise why things don't always work out for them. They realise why things are different. They realise why things are difficult. They realise why you don't always get a successful sprint, no matter how hard you try. You realise why you can't normalize your number of story points delivered per sprint. You realise why story points becomes ultimately ineffective, right, beyond the team. You realise why for a lot of those things. People and teams can take those ideas and run with them themselves.

And I don't believe that Scrum should be forced upon teams. I think they should choose themselves how they work. And if they want to take and use principles of Scrum then I'm here to help them but if they want to use other stuff I'll help them with that too but they should be making those choices with a clear and concise understanding of complexity and empiricism so that they can ultimately make more of the right choices and less of the wrong ones. And I think that's hard and I think that's missing in a lot of the, I don't know a better word than boilerplate teachings of the mechanisms in Scrum, doing mechanical Scrum is not useful at all. People have to understand why each of those things in Scrum is in place, why it provides them with value, why taking it away, what's the result of taking it away, what happens, what doesn't happen, and why we want to keep those things. I think that's so important.

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else Agile Scrum or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.