So I guess I guess the number one tip for effective Sprint planning is make sure everybody on your team already understands what's in the product backlog, what's likely to be brought into the Sprint as much as possible. Right, there's all I put a lot of caveats in there. I did put a lot of caveats in there, did it deliberately because again there could be surprises, there could be things you don't know that you discovered during Sprint planning. There could be all sorts of reasons why you have to deviate from the happy path. But the happy path is that number one thing for making you as effective as possible. As much as possible, the entire team should understand the things that are in the product backlog before they bring them into the Sprint. That would be my number one tip for Sprint planning.

If I was to bring in a number two tip, which I'm gonna, then it would be that have a clear, well-understood product goal as well. Right, what is the context within which we're making decisions? That's really the purpose of the product goal, right? We're making holistic decisions during Sprint planning about what direction we're going to take the product in next. Right, and a clear understanding of the product goal is key to that understanding. It's key to being able to effectively or make those choices as effective as possible. How do we make more of the right choices, less of the wrong ones? We need more understanding, we need more visibility and transparency of the strategic direction of the product, the current tactical direction of the product, or intermediate strategic direction, which is the product goal. But also, that's how we craft the Sprint goal, which is the next tactical thing we're doing in order to reach our intermediate strategic goal.

So having that clear and making it as transparent as possible, everybody on the team needs to understand it. The product owner needs to understand it, and its impact. Stakeholders need to understand it as well, right? Otherwise, you're going to get to the end of the Sprint and you're gonna have unhappy stakeholders because you went in the direction that they didn't think you were going or didn't understand you were going. Right, don't do that.

And if, so yeah, well, if teams don't or aren't able to do those two things, they're pretty much screwed. You're not gonna build great products, right? Unless you actually understand where you're going. I think everybody should look up "team" in the dictionary. Everybody should have to look up "team" in the dictionary, right? It means a group of people working together towards a common goal. If there's no common goal, there is no team. If you have a list, if your Sprint goal is a list of things, you're not a team. You're just a group of people who pick some stuff and happen to discuss it together. That's not a team. You're not working together towards a common goal.

So make sure that you have Sprint goals, you have product goals, and that they're not just lists of things, right? And make sure you have it at least for Sprint planning.

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else Agile, Scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.