I don't know if you've noticed, but unhappy, sad people tend not to be engaged in what it is that they're doing. One of the metrics for whether you're going to have success in the future is the morale of the people that are doing the work. That could be people actually building the products, it could be the people designing the products, it could be the people managing the people, people that are designing the products. If we're sad and unhappy, we don't do good work as humans, no matter how much you encourage them to just be professionals and get on with it. 

So we want happy, engaged, excited people. Part of what makes us as humans happy and engaged and excited about topics is if we have our intrinsic needs met. Hopefully, you're paying people enough in your organisation that they're not worried about extrinsic needs, like paying the mortgage or the rent or putting food on the table. Those are things that hopefully the people within your organisation are already able to achieve, which means if you've read Dan Pink's book, "Drive", the intrinsic motivators that really encourage us to do the best work we can are autonomy, mastery, and purpose. 

Autonomy means us feeling like we're in control of our own destiny and we decide what we're working on. Mastery means we're good at what we do; we're being valuable, right? We're learning and understanding. Then purpose means the things that we do matter to others; they provide value in the space, and we can see the value that those things create. 

Part of the thing that I think is most valuable about this idea of the longer-term mentor and training immersive programmes is that we're provoking discussion within the organisation. We're provoking thought leadership within the organisation. I found that the people within the organisation start becoming more engaged and animated in the particular topics. They start talking to other people in the organisation about the things that they've been learning, but also the things they've been discussing, the things they've been discovering. They start figuring out who in the organisation they can go speak to have a conversation on this particular topic. They're starting to get engaged and excited and animated about what it is that they're trying to do because they're starting to see how the work they do every day connects to the overall purpose of the organisation, even if the organisation doesn't yet understand the purpose that it's trying to achieve. 

Lots of organisations don't have that overriding goal, that North Star that they're working towards. I'm working with a few organisations at the moment where the leadership hasn't even thought about that. "Oh, to make more money," which is not what everybody can get behind because it's making somebody else money. 

Even knowing, especially this is especially true for the product management mentor programme, the things we talk about help those folks understand the need for those things. Their initial purpose becomes how do I engage with my organisation and help them create those goals and vision that this is what we're trying to achieve, that North Star. 

I have a current mentor programme that's underway for product management, but I had a previous one that ended perhaps two months ago, something like that, for an organisation in the UK. About halfway through the programme, I got an email from the CEO effectively saying, I’ve not an exact quote, but to paraphrase what he said, he said, "I've never had a training programme that we've purchased as an organisation provide the level of engagement and excitement and potential change than the mentor programme did for product managers." 

It highlighted to him because effectively one of the weeks, everybody was in Poland. From a time scale perspective, I think it was an afternoon session. In Poland, it's like two hours later. The product managers had their day in the organisation, then they'd had this class into the evening, so I take four hours of their time into the evening. There was a dinner organised with the CEO and all the product managers and some other folks. The CEO was expecting all the product managers to turn up tired and grumpy, you know, all of those things that you expect when they've just spent four hours doing this thing. 

But when they came to the dinner, they were engaged in talking about the topics that we'd been discussing during the day. They were engaging the CEO in discussions about what it is that they would like to try and do, how it's different from what they've done before, how it might impact on the value that we create in the organisation. That engagement and excitement was enough to prompt the CEO to email me directly and say, "Well, this was great. I've never seen this before. This is fantastic." 

That, obviously, for me, is a great outcome as well. We've actually done follow-on mentorship programmes for their engineering teams as well, where we've taken their engineering teams into a similar type of programme, same model. We did a product development mentor programme with two of their four teams in the organisation, and we've already started to see improvement in the teams, improvement in what it is that they're doing in the organisation and their ability to deliver and support the business. 

I've seen way more instances of success with this type of format than I ever saw before with the traditional training, four half days or two full-day formats that have been delivered in the past. I've really only seen that work once really successfully in hundreds of trainings. That doesn't mean it's not been successful for people, but me being able to see and engage with this group of people over eight to fifteen weeks or perhaps longer, depending on the programme, and just have that continuous engagement, talking about those topics, has produced some fantastic results already from every single instance of running these programmes. Every single instance has created actionable outcomes for the businesses that have purchased it.