I think it's very difficult for aspiring agile leaders to get the time and the space needed to have a lot of the conversations that really need to be had in the leadership space in their organisation. The P.E. is a fantastic class that enables that space to have those conversations but doesn't necessarily always result in space to actually do the things differently that you want to do or practice the things that you want to practice. 

That's where taking the traditional P.A.L.I. class and exploding it into a six-week immersive class enables more time for people's thought processes, right? To adopt some of these new ideas, for people to try things in between the class. Specifically, the assignments would be something that they're definitely going to try. They might try other things that we talked about in the course, but the assignment is a specific thing: here, go try this, go figure out how this happens in your organisation. 

Then bring that back around into a group of their peers, whether it's a public class and there's leaders from lots of different aspiring leaders from lots of different organisations, or it's a private class where you've got the leadership for your organisation in that private class. That coming back around and debriefing those assignments, and also being able to, if you did try other things, being able to ask those questions at that point. 

This is, I tried this, we looked at this idea and it didn't work. We tried to do this level of delegation. How do we do this differently so that we can get more buy-in from the people that are doing it? That collaborative experience is really the why the P.A.L. immersive class is such a great fit for people who are in management or leadership positions inside of their organisation and they want to adopt those agile ideas that they see organisations out there, people out there being able to do and getting so much value from. 

How do we get the same value in our organisation from those conversations? How do we change the way we do things to enable the people in our organisations to take more accountability, to take more ownership of the things that they're working on, to be more invested and connected with the work that they're doing? 

The P.A.L.E. class is an experience that allows you to understand how all of those things are connected together and perhaps reflect on the way your organisation currently does things and how that might inhibit the ability for teams to maximise the value that they deliver to stakeholders, your customers, your stakeholders, your leadership. 

If you want to have a discussion about how immersive classes can revolutionise your training experience, then please book a call on our website. Alternatively, you can find all of our public immersive classes listed there as well, and we would love to hear from you.