Question is, what's the biggest contribution from a product owner that you know of? I think there are a lot of great product owners out there, great product managers, but the one that I always think of when I think about great product management is kind of two people in the same organisation, both kind of product owners in the same product, which is confusing because then there's two product owners, right? But I'll try and explain.

That's effectively Brian Harry, who was the product unit manager for Team Foundation Server for the entire developer division at Microsoft back in the day. When I was getting into all of this stuff, he was the man. He realised, as the single responsible person for about 650 people working on this product, that a two-yearly release cadence kind of sucks, right? So his was the first team in Microsoft to start really en masse moving towards a greater degree of agility.

The way they came up with, within the context of Microsoft, for doing that stuff is almost the model that was replicated across the organisation. It's never going to be identical, right? But that's when, if you hear Microsoft talking about their season-based model, which they do talk about, they have the spring release and the fall release, right? This kind of cadence of bigger things that they're working on, of product goals maybe, right? That's really what they're talking about, is this season-based model where they have that urban flow of work and ideas.

Brian Harry worked on that, very much supported by my other favourite gentleman, Aaron Bjork, who was, in effect, if you're not familiar with TFS, and it's now called Azure DevOps, right? That's effectively what it is. Back in the day, Microsoft was doing two-year releases of Team Foundation Server and Visual Studio, right? They found that the cadence for closing the feedback loop was actually four to six years because they were in a two-yearly cadence. It's two to three times whatever your delivery cadence of usable working product is. That's ultimately your feedback cadence because what they found was that they would do a beta halfway through to get feedback from people, but as soon as you've shipped that beta, you're now working on this stuff that you need to do for launch, and the feedback you get on the beta you can't actually fit in here because you don't have any time left. You're all booked, right? You've booked out that time for the stuff you need to do to get it to production.

So then you start thinking about, well, maybe we can fit it into the next yearly release, and they were able to fit some stuff in there. But what they also often realised was the closer they get to that production release, by the time they finish the beta, they're planning for the next two-yearly release, right? So they've already booked out this time as the feedback comes in on this product. The earliest you can possibly get that feedback from the beta into the actual working product is two years down the line, right? Or two and a half, up to two and a half years down the line. But in actual fact, some stuff might not make it into that time box, so it's the next time box, which is another, which is four years, four to four and a half years down the line, which is just too long, right? It's just too long.

So what, in realising that, this leadership group in this organisation, in this part of the organisation, they realised that they had to do something different, and he led the way in his organisation in making those changes, largely leveraging the respect for his choices, his wisdom within the organisation. The respect and the rest of the organisation for his wisdom allowed him to maybe do things that other people weren't able to do or hadn't been able to do in the past. He is relentless. This guy, he'll work 20-hour days, no problem at all. He's just one of those folks that has that outlook.

Him, along with Aaron Bjork, effectively changed the way Microsoft do business, changed the way Microsoft approached building products, and changed the whole ethos. I mean, not without support, right? Somebody else has to come along and water those ideas and help them grow, and that was Satya, who was able to come along into Microsoft and then start encouraging a lot of these ideas. But the kernel for these ideas was pre-Satya. It was the Azure DevOps team, and they moved to a three-week continuous cadence.

So, in fact, the product owner, that's how I see the product unit manager, right? Fully fiscally accountable person in your product structure. They're the ones that are actually best placed to enable changes in your organisation anyway. They're the ones with the money. They're the ones with, well, if I'm going to spend your money building this product, I need to be able to control this and this and this in order to be most effective at building this product. They're the ones who need to have that argument. It's not your agile coaches or your consultants or any of these people. Like, what the hell do they know about your business, right? That's the attitude internally.

But one of the core purposes of that agile coach and consultant is to help that person who can make that change, who does have that respect inside of the organisation, who does have that fiscal accountability, make those changes. And that was the huge, I just think it's such a huge contribution that Brian Harry and Aaron Bjork made to this idea of building products inside of Microsoft, right? But building products in general, because the whole ethos of Azure DevOps is about DevOps, right? It's about shortening those feedback loops. What tools do we need to support that idea? And yeah, that for me is the most powerful story.

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else, agile, scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.