Foreign. So the question is, what's my advice for becoming a scrum master outside of software engineering? I don't, I think that's an interesting topic because in order to be a scrum master, be a successful, effective scrum master, I believe that you need to be able to understand fully the work that the team is doing. So it makes the most sense for a scrum master to be somebody who has been part of a team doing the thing that they're going to scrum master, has been in that domain, has been part of those organisations, and has worked their way to that advanced position, which is the scrum master. 

As a change leader in the, in as part of a team, right? So if you want to be a scrum master and you're not currently in the IT software world, then what probably makes the most sense is to be part of a team doing what you like and enjoy doing anyway. Right? I was speaking to somebody recently who has an accounting background and wants to be a scrum master to accounting teams to help accounting organisations get better at doing accounting, right? And that's really what you want to be. 

Being an experienced team member doesn't mean that you're awesome at the thing the team does, right? You don't actually have to be awesome at coding to be a scrum master for a coding team. But you have to understand the coding, you have to understand the ramifications of DevOps, you have to understand the ramifications of automated build, automated testing, of what it means to be a software engineer or means to be a tester, right, in that space. 

So if you want to be a scrum master and your background is accounting, what better place to start than joining an accounting team in an accountancy firm and then working slowly to help improve the way they work? And at some point, that team that you work with is going to be seen to be more successful than other teams in the organisation, and somebody's going to come along and ask why. Why is this team more accessible, successful? Why is it doing better? Why are people on this team happier than the other teams that we have in our organisation? 

And they're going to come and ask, and your boss is going to say, "Well, I don't know, but if you go speak to Bob, right, he's been leading those ideas, and maybe Bob can tell you a little bit more about how that works." And then you build a name for yourself, you're given more accountability and responsibility within the organisation, and you can do it at a higher and higher level across the arc. For me, that's leadership, right? That's the leader who serves from the scrum kite.