In order to be successful, organisations need trust, and trust comes from the virtue of patience. Your organisation needs patience and tolerance with the people in the organisation who are doing the best they can within the context that they have and hopefully trying to create the best possible product. If they're trying to create the best possible product and something goes wrong, there's a failure. Things don't go like we expect, or we create something that doesn't look like we expect. Sometimes that's just a fact of life, right? Not everything's going to go the way you want it. Not all of the outcomes are going to be what you want.

Everything that we create when we're building products is something that may or may not work out, may or may not be successful. We're taking a bet, right? We're saying we think this feature, this capability is going to be successful, or we think these practices are going to work for us as we're trying to do things in the organisation. We think this new tool is going to work, and we don't know any of those things are true until we actually get to the end of that process or at least some way through that process, and we have something usable that we can validate with our customers, with our users, within our world, to be able to create good outcomes.

So, businesses need to be patient with teams. Leaders need to be patient with people. Product owners need to be patient with the product, right? With the people that are building stuff in the product, are we getting to where we need to go? If we get frustrated and create a blame culture within our organisation, we are not going to be successful because we're going to erode the trust that is the foundation to empiricism. One of the key things we need to build trust is patience.

If you are having difficulty getting the most out of the seven virtues of agility, then my team at Naked Agility can help you, or find a consultant, coach, or trainer who can. It's essential for you to find help as soon as you can and not wait. Use the links below to get in touch because you don't just need agility; you need Naked Agility.