Well, I think so. The question is, what is the most valuable lesson you've learned as an agile consultant? And I think you could take the word agile out, and it's just the most valuable lesson I've learned as a consultant in whatever flavour, right? I've ended up working in, and that's that quite often the statement of work, in fact, almost always the statement of work, bears no relevance to the problems that the customer actually has.

And that's where you have to try and tread carefully because it is your business, it's my business as a consultant, in delivering a statement of work, or is it maximising the value that I bring to the customer, right? And quite often, consultants will deliver to the statement of work. "Right, here's the contract, this is what we've been told we have to do, and we need to deliver to that contract."

I find that that's a losing proposition because you can quite often, and this happens a lot, have unhappy customers because you've delivered what they asked for, but it's not what they need, right? It doesn't actually bring any systemic, lasting change to their organisation, and things go back to the way they were as soon as you leave because there's not that change because the statement of work didn't include it or scope for it.

A great example of that was I was on a train in England somewhere, and it had Wi-Fi on the train, and the Wi-Fi was absolutely horrendous, absolutely horrendous. And I think I tweeted at the train company, and that's using my mobile signal when I could, and basically said, "Your Wi-Fi is completely unusable on the train, completely unusable." And the answer I got back, obviously from their marketing team, right? Because that's where Twitter goes, was, "Well, we're not contractually obligated to provide Wi-Fi."

So, "Of yours," right? That was pretty much the answer that came back from them. It's like, "It's not in the contract, so if it doesn't work, we don't care," right? And that, to me, is that idea taken to a little bit too extreme, right? Of just following what's in the contract. I quite often don't like having contracts at all with customers because of that. I want to be able to dynamically and adaptively figure out what it is they need when we get on the ground and get engaging.

For most customers I work with, I just have a variable contract, an email contract, right? "Can you come and help us out?" "Yes, I can come and help you out." "What dates can you come?" "These dates." "Okay, I'm there," right? And that's enough for me to go book flights, right? Pre-COVID, book flights, turn up on site, and help them out, and then invoice them afterwards. And I never had a problem, never been burned. I'm sure now I've said that it will probably happen, right?

But never had a problem for the big, large customers, right? They come with their own contracts that they like you to sign and then do EAS and all of those things. I just assume NDA, right, for every customer I work with. But those bigger organisations with bigger contracts lock you in to delivering something that the procurement we need in the organisation is going to hold you to, regardless of whether you're delivering value to the customer.

So you have to deliver enough value that the people that you're working with will happily just tick that box and say, "Yes, Martin delivered." Right? What's in this statement of work when actually there's no relationship between what's in the statement of work and what was delivered? But we delivered what they needed at the level they needed that provided them with the value they needed to not worry about what was written in the contract.

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else, agile, scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.
