If there was one thing that new product owners should know above all the other things that we've talked about, that's that they need to focus on continuous learning. They need to be looking at what's happening in the industry, what's happening in the market, what are the new tools and techniques that are available. It doesn't mean you're going to use them; there's always a little bit of a danger of the cult of the new, right? Well, we're using it because it's new, but you need to understand all of the different tools and techniques that are available to you, at least enough to know what thing you might choose for a particular circumstance so you can have a goal. The more tools you have in the toolbox, the better.

There's a great blog post that I read years ago. It was focused on developers, coders, but the theory applies just the same, and it started with the phrase, "If you're reading this, you're already in the top 10%." And that's because there's only a small number of people that actually focus on continuous learning, that actually try new things all the time, that are actually reading up on different techniques and different topics. They don't have to be new; they can just be new to you. They can be older things that you're going and figuring out. "Crossing the Chasm" was written in the '80s, right? What are the things that you're reading? How do you enable yourself to be in the top 10%? Because that's how you maximise your chances of getting the best gigs, right? You need to be in the top 10%. And if all you need to do to do that is read some blog posts every week, maybe a couple of books a month, that's not a high bar to get into that top 10%. And then you'll be the one with people knocking at your door trying to figure out how to get you to be their product owner.

So, as a new product owner, read voraciously. Read blog posts, watch videos on YouTube, follow on LinkedIn the other product owners out there that you'll be able to find. Product owners and product managers, what are they talking about? What are they into? What are they teaching you? Learn about evidence-based management, hypothesis-driven engineering, OKRs, all of those marketing things around A/B testing, Mechanical Turk, different tools you can use to enable you to have the information you need to make the best decisions you can around maximising the value of the work done by your Scrum team, or if you have multiple Scrum teams, by all of those Scrum teams. What is it that you're going to do to maximise the value? Continuous learning is the key to that.

We can help you. We have a bunch of Scrum classes at Scrum.org. We have the Professional Scrum Product Owner, Advanced Product Owner if you want to dive a little bit deeper. But on the side of that, you've also got the Professional Scrum with Kanban, bringing in those flow mechanics and flow stories, Professional Scrum with UX, which is focused on the Lean UX. Go read the Lean UX book if you want to understand what that is. These tools and techniques, along with many others that you can learn online, that we can certainly point you to, are the things that are going to differentiate you from all the other product owners out there.

You need to focus on continuous learning. If you find it hard to focus on continuous learning, if you don't know where to look or what to do, then my team at Naked Agility can help you or point you in the right direction to find the help you do need. Don't let the plethora of misinformation out there get in your way. We can help you filter all of that nasty stuff and get to the nuggets of gold that will help you stand out as a product owner. Use the links in the description to get in touch, and let us help you.