The purpose of naked agility is to help organisations create great teams. It's something that I've... it's plainly obvious when you say it, but if you have unhappy, sad people, you're not going to get good work out of them. You're not going to build great products. I believe that every person deserves to be using great products. We, as customers, we, as users of products, don't deserve bad, shitty products. We don't deserve that. We deserve great products that provide us with a great experience and do great things for us to help us do the things that we need to do. Unhappy, sad teams don't create great products; they create bad, terrible products.

In order to have happy, engaged people, we need to create those ideas of great teams within our organisation. How do we engage with people? How do we enable them to be the productive story that we're trying to create? In the creative world, in the software world, that means autonomy, mastery, and purpose. Right? Autonomy is we need to be the ones making the decisions. We need to be the ones that are on board, that are engaged in the story. The people doing the work need to be engaged in the story. We certainly need to also be masters of the work that we're doing. We need mastery, we need expertise, we need skills, we need knowledge. We need to be able to be the best that we can be at what it is that we're doing. Lots of organisations suppress that.

We need purpose. We need to understand what direction we're going and why we're going there, and how the work that we're doing contributes to that story. Otherwise, it doesn't matter what we're working on. Like, why would I care about the product if I don't know what it's for or who it's helping? And if I don't care, what care am I taking in the product, in the work that I'm doing? I'm taking less care because I don't care.

Enabling... you can't just tell people to care, right? You have to enable. You have to create an environment within which the people that are participating, that are working on the software products that you want to create and use and develop, care about what they're doing. They have that autonomy, they have mastery, and they have purpose. And that's how we create great teams that create great products.