Oh, that's a good question. So the question is why do I prefer agile consulting over agile coaching? And for me, I believe the leadership within your organization is a business critical function. Right, this is not something that you should be outsourcing to somebody else. And I feel like too many organizations bring in coaches who are their semi-filled time probably over a number of years, and those coaches are bringing leadership to the organization. They're filling the gap between traditional organizational leadership and agile leadership, and they become a crutch for the people in the organization. The people in the organization don't actually learn to do things differently. 

Um, it's like for if you were to equate it to software engineering, it's like the mythical rewrite of a product. Right, you go rewrite the product, but you don't really realise that the people that built the crappy coded product you have right now are the same people that you've got doing the rewrite. And why would you think it would be any different? Right, and this is exactly the same thing. You have the same people in your organization. So when those coaches rotate off, either because budgets get constrained, right, because that goes in fluctuations over the years, we're in a budget constrained environment right now. 

Um, and we're seeing big swathes of organizations divesting themselves of agile coaches and scrum masters, mostly in the contracting space, because um, they're not seeing the value. Right, they're not seeing the value anymore, and those people are leaving. And then the organization's falling back into its old traditional practices because there was no actual learning taking place inside the organization. 

So the way I look at it is an agile consultant's job is to go in, in a very short space of time, help people in the organization understand what they need to do and how they need to change and work on their mindsets. And then they're the ones doing the work. They're the ones taking it forward. They're the ones cleaning up their own mess and dealing with the issues that are a result of their decisions. They're the ones learning. Right? 

Um, so then you've got that intrinsic to the way your organization functions now. So when the agile consultant leaves, they're no longer that crutch. Right? So a normal engagement model for me is to only work full time with a team for a couple of weeks, maybe a month tops. I think the longest engagement I did was three and a half weeks. 

Um, but then come back periodically, um, and help with advice for the scrum masters, advice for leaders in the organization. Have those constant touch points where they're bringing me some of their problems, and I'm helping them figure out other things to try, right, that might help resolve them. So that I'm not in full time, I'm not helping them full-time.