We've been doing DevOps for quite some time. It's really difficult to provide an overview of our DevOps services because our DevOps services tend to be bespoke for every single customer that uses them. There are some patterns, but there are not that many formulas that work everywhere. Every company is different, every group of people is different, and every outcome that they're trying to achieve with the philosophy that is DevOps is different. 

But there are some patterns that do kind of make sense. One of those is a state of DevOps report. The idea is you want to understand, as an organisation, where we are based on modern engineering and DevOps practices. Where do we sit? Because it's difficult to understand where you want to go unless you know where you are right now. That's the first thing you do when you have a map and you're trying to figure out how to get somewhere; you have to find out where you are so you can then figure out what the direction to go is. 

So that kind of state of DevOps, state of agile, where are we right now in our understanding of or our application of DevOps practices? We might talk about things like how products are being released. We might talk about what sort of tools are being used within that context of releasing products. I worked with an organisation that had 13 different source control systems in use for one product. There's a lot of waste there that can be identified. 

What are we actually doing? How do we take the ideas that we've created in our product, and how do they actually get into production? Not just what leadership thinks is happening, but what's actually happening on the ground. We tend to interview a bunch of people in the organisation, usually trying to do solo interviews because people are more willing to speak when there's not somebody else present. This kind of anonymous information allows us to find out all sorts of things. 

For example, I worked with an organisation where their team of 30 engineers understood branching, but they didn't understand automatic merging. So they were manually copying code with a text diffing between branches in order to merge code, which is just mental. I worked with another organisation that had built a custom tool because the business had asked for a capability. They built a custom tool that allowed product managers to pick features and create a build of the product that only had those features merged together into the product. 

This might sound like a good idea if you're on the business side, but from an engineering standpoint, creating a cohesive, valid, high-quality, usable, high-value product is totally insane. There are all sorts of non-dysfunctional behaviours; I tend to call them opportunities for improvement because it's a little bit more positive. But the reality is they're dysfunctional behaviours that are really common in the industry and have been for many years because people are pushed towards solving a problem, and they don't necessarily know that there are known logical ways to solve that problem already. 

Even if they do know about those non-logical ways to solve that problem, somebody in the business has an objection to it. A great example is automatic deployments. The objection might be that we're under Sarbanes-Oxley audit; we're Sarbanes-Oxley compliant, therefore we need a separation of developers from the people who do the releasing of the code. That means we can't have developers with access to production. 

That's actually not true with Sarbanes-Oxley; not true at all. But because somebody believes it is, you then end up with these ideas where development and operations are separate. One of the biggest values that we bring, the biggest benefit that we bring to organisations when we're talking about the DevOps philosophy, is that ability for higher quality, more frequent delivery, and less friction in your ability to get software out the door. 

Some of it's about ownership. If it's you, you have an idea, you're going to build that idea, you're going to deploy that idea, you're going to monitor that idea, and you're responsible for the upkeep of that idea, the support, and the continued value add of that idea. That should all be within the control of the group, the team. 

So, IDE all the way through to deployment and closing those feedback loops should be part of that story, and that's very difficult to do within a lot of organisations. So what are the steps that you can take to get towards that? What are the tools that you can use to ensure that you meet the compliance that you need to meet in order to continue to meet your compliance but do these new things? How do you maintain quality? 

How do you maintain the level of quality? If, for example, you're not doing UAT because UAT is a cost centre, not a value centre for software engineering, if your UAT is a value centre because it finds stuff and protects your business, then we've not got high enough quality delivery of our product. But if we create that high enough quality and UAT becomes a cost centre, we want to get rid of those cost centres. 

How do we ensure that we don't end up in the same situation as CrowdStrike? There's a great example of an organisation recently in the news that caused massive disruption. I think they're going to be sued by Delta for 500 million dollars that Delta has lost over the week that they had a problem, which is partly their own problem with DevOps. 

What could CrowdStrike have done differently? One of the things they didn't do was control the blast radius. You don't just deploy to production; you don't just deploy to 100 machines. I'm not sure exactly how many machines run at CrowdStrike, but you don't deploy to all of them at the same time. That's insanity. Even Windows, who have very high quality in the product that they ship, deploy to a small number of people first. 

They control the blast radius. What are our lowest impact customers or customers that would be impacted the least by an outage? Deploy to them first. Perhaps deploy to our own systems first and run it for a few days to see if there are any problems, monitoring that feature and that capability that's being deployed. 

Not deploying on a Friday; the best time to deploy is Monday morning when everybody comes in because you get a whole week to fix any problems. Deploying on Friday is probably not the best idea. There are all kinds of things that make logical sense and are within the context of this DevOps story that we can help educate, coach, and engage with your team, your engineers, as well as with your business and your leadership to understand what these things are, what value you get from them, and how you maintain your ability to control risk within this new world of continuous delivery to production.