One of the ghosts of agile past is dogma. We've all run into those dogmatic folks that try and pursue an idea irrelevant of the data and the experience of the people around them. We need to kick those folks to the curb. I usually, I can be, not dogmatic is the wrong word, almost 100% of the time when I'm working with teams, I'm pragmatic. But I can also be pedantic if I'm in a training situation. Whatever it is I'm training, if I'm teaching you that thing, I'm going to be specific about what things are called and what they mean based on what they're called, whether that's Scrum or continuous delivery or C or whatever it is. There are specific meanings for the nouns that have been defined within the context of the thing that we're learning, and we need to understand what they are, what the impact is, and how they engage with each other in the real world with teams.

We need to be pragmatic. We need to understand that people call things different things than we're expecting. They have different knowledge and skills; they've come from different places where they use things in different ways, and we need to work within the bounds of what it is we've got. So one of those ghosts of agile past is dogma. Oh, there's been some dogmatic things I've seen. The worst one was told to me by a good friend and my boss, Steven Borg, about a Scrum Master who had just been fired from their job in Washington State because they had been adamant that if the team weren't standing up during the daily standup, then they weren't doing Scrum, and you have to be standing up in order to do Scrum. But that team had specifically decided that they wanted to sit down because they had a disabled team member in a wheelchair, and they didn't want to be towering over that person.

That is the right thing. That is the very definition of a Scrum team, of being respectful to each other, of openness, respect, and courage to do the things that they think are valuable. And one of those was, "Let's all sit down so that we can be at the same level and work together." This dogmatic Scrum Master got themselves fired for cause. I think anyone who is dogmatic, and dogmatic is where, see, dogma has this relationship to religion. It's really about believing something in spite of the evidence to the contrary. That's what I think about dogma, right? So that team was told that if they're not standing up, they're not agile, when in fact they were demonstrating agility and sitting down, and the other person was just following.

And it's not even the letter of the law because there's no stand-up in Scrum, right? But the letter of their understanding of the law in order to just enforce that rather than working with people within the context and learning more. And that's where dogma differs from just being pedantic, right? Being pedantic is sometimes valuable within the context of training, but being pragmatic is the way most Scrum Masters and agile coaches should be. Don't be dogmatic; be pragmatic and try and get rid of one of those ghosts of agile past.

If you are being haunted by this ghost of agile past, we can help you exercise it or help you find a coach, consultant, or trainer who can. Don't let this phantom undermine the effectiveness of your value delivery, and the longer it lingers, the more it will damage your team's progress. So email me at martink@agility.com about your unique needs or situation, then please book a call or visit us at nakedagility.com. We also have our immersive and traditional public classes on our website, and we'd love to hear from you.
