So the question is, what can a leader pragmatically do with a team that is identified as incompetent, right, but identified as deficient in some way? Before you resort to any kind of firing, there's plenty of things to do. You may want to bring in training. Training is a good way to broad pace some knowledge across a group of people. They might not remember everything that they learned, but I do find, although we might remember 20 to 25% of what we learned in a class, we learn that 25% is spread across all of the capabilities that you maybe learned. Maybe there's 30 topics, or let's say there's 25 topics, and you remember 1% of each of those topics. That 1% of the total course in each of those topics that you remember enables you to know where to go look, where to go find that additional information.

As long as the people that you've got have some kind of willingness to do things themselves, discover, right, then you can just broad paste some training. Perhaps applying professional Scrum for software developers, right? Get some broad paste of these modern engineering practices across the team. At least they're understanding them and thinking about them, and they can go do additional research on those topics. It shows commitment from the organisation on updating. 

But if they're already in, I guess I would say, a dejected state, I worked at an organisation in the UK, another bank, and they had... I worked beside somebody who believed themselves to be unemployable because they hadn't done anything new in four years. That kind of depressive, dejected, they're already unhappy but don't know what to do about it state. You might find that over time they learn not to learn, right? They stop learning, they stop figuring stuff out because they're like, "Why bother if I'm not going to be allowed to do anything?" 

So you need to build that back in slowly. You need to start encouraging them to learn new things. It might not be that you encourage them to learn; you might say, "You need to learn this new thing so we can do this new capability." Have them learn the thing and then do the new capability. Have them learn the thing, do the new capability, suggest they learn the thing, drop in the new capability, right? So then they're expected to... it has them have that feeling of, "If I learn it, I get value from it," rather than, "If I learn it, I'll not get value from it because nobody's going to let me use it." 

So you have to start building back in that capability into the team, into the whole organisation, right? Because people don't get that way out of the box. Most people that I have ever worked with, most teams, most people that I've ever worked with, are interested in learning more about their field unless the organisation has beaten it into them that they're not going to be able to use anything they learned. 

I spent my early career as a .NET developer, hopping between companies because I would go to a company because they were using .NET too, and then I would be working there for a couple of years. About halfway or three-quarters, you know, a year to 18 months in, .NET 3 would become available, and I'd be starting to learn that technology and then asking them, "So when are you going to use this new technology?" And they'd be like, "Maybe in 3 or 4 years." And I'd be like, "Okay, I'm job hunting then for somewhere that's pulling in .NET 3." 

Then I'm going to go work with that, not .NET 3. When .NET 4 comes out, I'm going to be learning that new technology, and then if my organisation isn't willing to change, then I'm going to change, right? Change your org or change your org. I think that continuous move into technology maintained my ability to be employable, my ability to learn and grow my knowledge and career. I personally wasn't afraid to switch between companies, but lots of people are, right? 

So it can be beaten out of them very easily. That was through a number of organisations, investment banking as well as other stuff. But you need to create an environment within which people are rewarded. That doesn't mean financially, but rewarded for learning new things and figuring out new ways to do things. Do you give people the freedom to try stuff out? Do you give them the freedom to fail? 

Doing something about doing new stuff is... you might find things that don't work, right? Well, yes, we can do it this way. No? Okay, well, this bit doesn't work. We're down a dead end; we need to backtrack a bunch and then go down a different route. There's some waste in that, but the waste that you get from that is often overshadowed by the clever and interesting ways that you solve those problems and the capabilities that those ideas bring to the organisation. 

You don't open out new markets, new capabilities, get new users by just staying in your lane. You have to be continually switching lanes and figuring out what the best way to solve a problem is. So if you have a team that you take over as a product owner or as a development manager or any way you come into contact in leadership with a team, if it feels like they don't feel they're allowed to learn, that they're allowed to use new things, that they're allowed to do stuff, you need to fix that problem in your organisation. Fix the system, and then you'll start seeing a difference in the teams. You'll start seeing a different vibe, a different capability, a different interest in solving problems in clever and interesting ways.

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else, Agile, Scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.