Evidence-based management has improved agility by actually having some way to monitor whether we're making changes to the organization. I think one of the core problems that we've had is that there hasn't been any real metrics. If you look at the research out there on agility in any form, whether that's plans or SAFE or DAD or LeSS or Nexus or Scrum, whatever it is you decide to do, in general, organisations are not being successful by implementing those things. They're not making systemic changes to their organisation; they're not getting the benefits that they expected to get. 

Part of the reason that is true, that they're not getting the benefits, is that they're focusing on the wrong thing. We're focusing on delivering the agile, which is not the point. The point of this is having a successful business that delivers value into the market so that we increase the value of our organisation. That's what we're trying to achieve, and agile is just a set of tools and practices and capabilities that we can use to help us be better at that. But unless we focus on what it is that we're trying to achieve—being more successful in the market—we're not going to get the benefits from agile because we're not going to make the changes in our organisation that we need in order to be successful.

When you look at organisations that are hugely successful at agile in the market, they're using agile. They've monitored what's going on in their organisation, and they've changed things in their organisation: the way their organisation functions, the way they do business, the way they lead people, the way they manage people, the way everything in their business operates. Every process, every service, every workflow has been impacted, and they've made those changes based on the data that they see. They're able to make a change in the way they do their business and monitor that data.

Evidence-based management practices, even without using those terminologies, is how every successful organisation has become successful. Then we get complacent once we get to a certain size, and the organisation quite often stagnates. Every startup that ends up being successful is using an evidence-based approach. Every organisation that is continuously growing—not necessarily through the acquisition model, which is a different model—but growing through their ability to deliver is doing that based on looking at the data, making the right decisions in the market, and expanding. 

This is how you scale an organisation: you use the data to figure out what's next. Evidence-based management just quantifies that and says, you know, just looking at revenue is not a good idea. What about markets we haven't tapped yet? The unrealised value? What about the ability to innovate? Because if we continuously just deliver stuff, at some point we're going to get slower and slower at delivering stuff. If we want to maintain our ability to deliver stuff into production—hopefully the right stuff—and maintain our ability to deliver stuff, we need to be continually making sure that our ability to innovate and our time to market is of a manageable size. 

There's balance in this framework of unrealised value, current value, ability to innovate, and time to market that enables you as an organisation to make better decisions, to focus on the right things for your business to be successful. So forget about the agile piece. Evidence-based management is about how you adapt your organisation to be more successful, how you enable your organisation to deal with the surprises that come along in the market. They could be good surprises or bad surprises, but when things happen, how quickly can your organisation take advantage of that surprise or mitigate the cost of that surprise? 

That ability to adapt is what people are trying to quantify when they talk about agility. So really, evidence-based management is the thing that helps your organisation be successful in the market. If you want to have a discussion about your unique needs or situation, then please book a call or visit us at Naked Agility. We also have our immersive and traditional public classes on our website, and we'd love to hear from you.