We need to change the way we focus and what we focus on within the context of these organisational strategies, business strategies, technical strategies that we need to be able to adapt to complex work. Right? Did you see how much I try to avoid the word agile there? Don't think about it as agile; think about it as increasing our capability, maximising our value, and maximising our effectiveness to deliver that. The name, the moniker, is irrelevant because what we've ended up with by a focus on the mechanical elements is we've ended up with backlog barons and scrum stumblers. That's product owners and scrum masters that have no capability to do what they're being asked to do, and they're pushed into positions of just not knowing what they're doing.

So what we can do, what I've got a couple of previous videos on this topic on the detail of what went wrong, but a summary is that demand has outstripped supply of competent people, and businesses have reduced the bar in order to meet the open positions. So we've got a bunch of people who don't know what they're doing. There's not been a focus on continuous learning and hiring people for that mentality, especially for the specific positions like product owner and scrum master, and engineers and lead engineers, to be able to have the body of people within our organisation, the culture and outlook within our organisation that moves us in that direction.

So that's where we are now, and we need to look at where we're going to go next and how we're going to get there. The first thing we need to do is fix the hiring practices. We need to stop hiring people who have no competence for the thing that we're trying to do. It's absolutely okay to bring in interns and bring in people at the lower levels, but we want to be bringing people in at the lower levels in the work context. Right? So think of it as, I'm trying to think how to describe this. The way I think, if we want good leaders in our organisation who are able to lead products or lead people, right, I'm thinking of them as two separate things because product management is leading the product, and I don't know what the name of the other one is; leadership is leading the people.

Then we need people who understand the context that we're working in to be those people leaders. So where do they come from? Well, usually they've done the job, right? They've done something within the context. I work with some great scrum masters. By the way, this is why I'm saying this. I'm not talking about being a software engineer; I'm not talking about writing code. I'm not expecting a scrum master to be able to write code. Right? I know scrum masters well. I might roll that back a smidge, but I know scrum masters who have never been coders, who have perhaps been a business analyst or perhaps been a tester, right? Or perhaps been some other context within a team, and they've demonstrated, they've worked hard, they've brought in and learned the philosophies around enabling a team to be effective. They've made suggestions that panned out within the context of their team. Their team has noticed that they quite often make suggestions that pan out and help them, and the team has promoted them to scrum master. That's the way I think about how you become a scrum master, right? You don't get hired into that position; the team hires you into that. The team enables you to pick up that accountability, however you want to describe it. The team get together and go, "Yeah, Bob is really good at this stuff. Bob, can you help coach us to do more stuff, to do more capability?" They've already gained the respect of the team by participating in the team, participating in the work that the team is doing. So the team knows they understand the work, and they're making suggestions on how we do our boards or different practices or different engineering things we can bring in to understand that.

So does somebody who's a scrum master need to be able to code? I would say no more than anyone needs to be able to code, which is yes. I don't know if you've looked at the international computer driver's licence, but at most of the levels, the coding's pretty basic. Being able to understand those logical constructs because then you can participate in conversations, you can participate in understandings like what architectures, what patterns and practices are valuable within the context of a particular product. If a product's big focus is engineering, a scrum master needs to understand the patterns and practices of engineering. If the focus of the doers is on accounting, right, then the scrum master needs to understand the patterns and practices of accounting so that they can help coach that group of people towards better accounting, better organisation of that work, better planning, better all of the just making things more effective.

So that's where we need to get to. So we've got where we are right now, which is lots of incompetent people doing the roles, and we've got where we want to get to, which is lots of competent people doing the roles. For me, it's fairly logical how we make that transition: we stop hiring people that can't do it and start hiring people that can. Primarily, try and promote from within our organisation into those roles and improve the overall capability and lead by example. So this is why we want scrum masters who are supposed to be leaders, right? A scrum master might be a delivery manager; they might be a defined role in your organisation. They might be a delivery manager; they might be a lead developer who picks up the accountability of scrum master. They could be something else, right? But they pick up that accountability, and they are somebody who has those lifelong learning genes. I don't know how better to describe it. They have that lifelong learning mindset, that lifelong learning philosophy, that I want to understand the world better, and they demonstrate that through leadership. So they lead the team, and they are demonstrating that this is how we want people in our organisation to behave.

Every time an organisation promotes somebody who's not capable, it tells every other capable person in the organisation that this organisation is not for them. That's what's been happening: promoting people through lack of competence and just not having the right people in the right place. There's a great book, The Ideal Team Player. It's a great book, and in that book, it talks about the types of behaviours that you want to see in people that you hire. We need to be hiring the right people. We need to be expanding the capability of the teams, of the parts of our organisation, of the product development effort within our organisation to be able to build better products that are more effective and add more value to our customers.