I would recommend the PAL EBM class really to anybody who works in a company who wants to take it in a direction of success. So you could be a manager managing a team within your organisation, you could be managing a group of teams, you could be managing a whole product, or you could be CEO managing the whole company. You could be a product owner, you could be a Scrum Master, you could be a leader anywhere in leadership in the organisation. The PEBM class is designed to take the participants through a story that enables understanding. Right, that's how we as humans learn best, is to experience and tell stories and engage in some kind of activities. The PBM class is designed to take us through those ideas about effectively why our existing metrics that we collect aren't being successful. Right, what is it about them that's being unsuccessful? So not just this one's bad and this one's good, but what is the underlying reason, the people reason, why a lot of those metrics are unsuccessful? Connecting those dots and enabling the people in the group to really understand the impact of having good metrics. Almost every participant I've had that goes through the PAL EBM has had epiphany-like realisations about what they're not doing in their organisation that they really should be doing. Right, that they really should be looking at these metrics, they really should be iteratively looking at them over time, seeing the trend and direction, and using metrics to shape the direction of the organisation while watching out for negative behaviours caused in people by monitoring those metrics. Right, there's lots of great examples out there of poor metrics. We tell a lot of those stories in the class. Right, in the PBM class, the trainer tells a lot of the stories of organisations out there. A lot of that information is publicly available as well, that you can find those metrics that we've always used and the negative impact that they've had on organisations over the longer term. That's not really obvious in the short term, but you do something over five or ten years in your organisation, and it can be absolutely detrimental to the way that you do business. One of the stories that I always tell for leaders is Microsoft. Microsoft used to do stack ranking. If you Google stack ranking, you'll find a whole bunch of other organisations that have also never been successful using it, in fact, been wholly unsuccessful using it. But stack ranking was this idea that you, as a manager, every manager in the organisation stack ranks every one of their direct reports, and the bottom 10% is out of the team. Right, and if you're in the bottom 10% three times in a row, you're out of the company. One of the things that we engage with is how would something like that impact on the behaviours of the people within the organisation? Right, and it's so obvious in hindsight the negative impact of those types of metrics on behaviours of people that you want to be collaborating together towards a common goal. How would this impact them? It's blatantly obvious to us the negative impact of that, but then why was it policy within Microsoft and the engineering organisation for ten years? Right, why did they not change it sooner? It took Satya coming along to make that change, and it's because people cling onto their beliefs in spite of the data. The data is telling them it's not going well, and they cling to it. Part of PAL EBM is transparency. Right, we have an empirical system for monitoring our data, so we want to be able to really see what's going on, see the real data, and then make decisions based on what's really going on, not the general fiction that most business decisions are made on at the moment. So that's why I would recommend the PAL EBM. I would heartily recommend it for individuals, but I would even more recommend it for organisation leadership teams to go through together. I've done that a number of times with organisations, and one of the comments that I got from a CIO in the PBM was, "These are the conversations that we've never had time to have," right, that we should have had before. Now that we've all had that little warning bell going off, thinking we should have these conversations, and we've just not had them because we don't have time, we don't have the inclination, we don't feel like we can voice it. The class creates space for leadership teams to really have those deep conversations on how are they going to measure success, what does success even mean, and how are they going to iteratively strategise towards the desired outcome? If you want to have a discussion about your unique needs or situation, then please book a call or visit us at Naked Agility. We also have our immersive and traditional public classes on our website, and we'd love to hear from you.