Foreign. So the Sprint Review Workshop helps you get the most out of what is one of the most important events in Scrum. This is the event when you engage with your stakeholders, where you find out whether you're building the right thing. You're on track. For me, it is very much a marketing event, i.e. your team and your product is being presented to stakeholders, and you want them to provide you with their opinions and feedback on what it is you're doing, where you're going. Are we missing anything that we don't understand? That can be very difficult and daunting for teams and product owners and product management to understand. It requires a certain level of exposure, right, of revealing yourself and how you work and how you do things to perhaps your customer. That can be quite scary.

So the purpose of this workshop is to both help you understand what it is, what's supposed to happen, and what you're supposed to get out of this event, right? That's the important core. But also, here are a bunch of tools and techniques that you can use. That's kind of the learning and core workshop part. But then we're going to help coach you through your first few Sprint Review sessions, and then we can have a debrief afterwards where we figure out, did our tactics work, right? The things we tried resonate with our stakeholders? What else could we try based on the experience that we got? And using, ultimately, the tools and techniques that companies have been using for years to engage with their customers, for you to engage with your stakeholders, for you to increase the level of interest and engagement from your stakeholders in your product, so that you have the best possible knowledge to build the best possible product.

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else Agile, Scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.