So the question is, within the context of the changing world and changing economic situation, what needs to happen before traditional organizations can consider agile? They need to be really... so there's kind of two ways to adopt agile, right? There's the wholehearted "we want to change the way we do things to have happier people, more productive teams, be able to adapt to changing market needs as quickly as possible," in which case you're taking apart your existing hierarchical command and control system, decentralising and democratising the workforce to be able to respond more quickly to the market needs. That's a lot of work; that's a huge amount of risk for your business, right? Because you're changing fundamentally the way that you do things across the board.

But that is what agility is all about, and inside of agility, there are the big topic of agility or the big topic of DevOps. There are a whole bunch of tools to try and help you with this, right? Everybody talks about the tools as the point, but they're not the point. Even agile's not the point; it's responding to market, right?

But there's the other type of agile that lots of large traditional organizations adopt, at least initially, and that's kind of like gym membership agile, right? Where you're... you know, you pay the membership to the gym so you can tell everybody that you go to the gym, but you don't actually go to the gym, right? You're just paying a lot of money for nothing, and that's how most big organizations seem, at least observationally, to be adopting agile. And I get it; it's hard and it's scary to change the way we do things.

But fundamentally, if your competitors are willing to accept that hard, scary thing before you are, then they're the ones that are going to be responding to market demand when you can't. They're the ones that are going to be creating environments for people to work in that are much more conducive to the way people want to work and engage with their companies today. Most young people want to work for companies, and they want to feel like the work that they do matters, that they have purpose in what they do, that they believe in the company that they're working for. And that's just not the case for most big traditional organizations.

So I think it's really important to have that consideration: are you, as an organization, actually ready to move towards agility, or are you not yet? Are you ready to respond quickly to market changes, or are you not yet? Right? These are important questions to answer. And by all means, you know, pay a bit of lip service, dip your toe in the water, but realise that those things do not result in the thing that you were dipping your toe in the water to achieve. You're only going to be able to achieve that with wholesale, systemic, and radical change of the way your organization functions to a more decentralised model.

Thanks for watching the video! If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else—agile, scrum, or DevOps—then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.