There's a quote by Steve Denning: "Being agile is about questioning what you do and continuously improving what you're doing." And that really is that fundamental kernel of what's the difference between what people have always done and what agile is talking about. We'd like people to do going forward into the future. And that's that question everything you do: why you do it, value it.

If it doesn't have value that it creates that's greater than the pain of doing it, then you need to change what it is you're doing and do things differently. And that is why we talk about, or at least Ken talks about, Scrum as a mirror. Right? I can't do Scrum because here's something you need to go fix in the way your organisation does business in order to become more effective. Because the more effective you are at adapting to change, the more chance you have of being successful in your market. The more chance you have of adapting around whatever it is the market throws at you, the world throws at you, or your competitors throw at you.

And if you can change and adapt faster than your competitors can, you'll be the one setting the trend in the market. You'll be the one that they're following, and you'll be the one making the money first. Right? And that's ultimately what it's all about. The most capitalistic organisations are the ones that can change as quickly as possible to take advantage of market opportunities. Right? That's what it's all about.

So, be that ninja, being able to dynamically change your business anytime you need. And for that, you can't do that. You can't make those decisions as a leader in an organisation or as a CEO. Right? You have to have the people that are at every level in your organisation need to be looking at the same thing. They need to be not following the rules; they need to be questioning the rules at every possible moment. They need to be asking, "Is there a better way to do this?" Right? That could be faster and quicker. Maybe we don't need to do this at all. Maybe we need to do it differently.

Those are all the questions that we should be constantly asking and creating forums within our organisation so that you can have those things dealt with. There's no point in having all those questions asked and then doing nothing about them, because all you do is end up with a bunch of disgruntled people working in your organisation who can see all the things that need to be fixed, but they can't fix them. They don't have the authority to fix them, and nobody else has the authority to fix them. Right? Or nobody else wants to, or senior leadership doesn't care. Right? That's going to have a massively negative impact on your business.

So, focus instead on creating forums within your organisation where you can have those legitimate moments—might be continuously—where you continuously look at and question the things that are going on, the way you do things, the choices that have been made, the decisions that have been made, so that you can continuously have the best possible version of your organisation emerge over time.

If you want to have a discussion about your unique needs or situation, then please book a call or visit us at Naked Agility. We also have our immersive and traditional public classes on our website, and we'd love to hear from you.