The question is, why do so few Scrum Masters progress to the PSM II or the PSM III certification? And ultimately it's because they don't care, right? They didn't do it in order to become better Scrum Masters or to understand the depth and breadth of being a Scrum Master. Quite a lot of people do it because they've either been told to do it, right? Their company has said, go take this class. Or they took the class in order to get a certificate. I always know who those people are, because the first thing they ask is, "What happens with the exam? What happens with the assessment?" You know that that's all they care about. They want the certificate for a job interview or for their professional development or whatever it is their company's doing. And those are ultimately not people. They don't care.

I read this blog post once. It was absolutely fantastic. And it basically started with this phrase. "If you're reading this, you're already in the top 10% of all software engineers." And what the author was getting at was that there are so few people doing jobs and work that they actually care about, that they actually love, that they're willing to invest additional time, perhaps outside of work, in going and reading content, on finding out what's going on, on interacting with other people in their profession and learning more about it. They just, I'm done with work. We're done. I'll pick it up tomorrow. And I'm only going to do these with stuff within work time. And that's not necessarily the type of person that is looking to launch their career in a particular direction, that is looking to help and benefit a bunch of people working towards a common goal.

If you're interested in those things, you're going to spend the time to go listen to some podcasts outside of work, or during your commute. Instead of watching movies during your commute, you're going to be listening to podcasts and reading blog posts and learning more, maybe perhaps reading some Agile books. And those are the folks that actually progressed to PSM II and PSM III because they're actually interested in the content, they're interested in the topic, they're interested in helping other people, particularly for the PSM, right? Because that's the Scrum Master's accountability is the effectiveness of the team and the generation of value within the context of the organization.

So how do they learn those new things? How do they figure out what it is they need to do? One of my favourite expressions actually from a good friend of mine, David Starr, who now works for Microsoft in the US, and he said, "What do violinists and martial artists have in common?" That was his question. And you're kind of like, well, I don't know. Those seem like very different things. But the answer is "they practice," right? That's how they get good at what they do, is they practice. When do we practice? When do we get to practice our craft? You tend to spend all day at work fulfilling your craft. Where's the time that you spend on making your craft better, on studying new ways of doing things, of perhaps practicing some of those things?

That's the type of person that transitions to PSM II and perhaps PSM III, right? Somebody who's really interested in diving deep, learning more, and helping other people get better at what they do by thinking about how can they help themselves be better at what they do.

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow and subscribe. I always reply to comments and if you want to have a chat about this please book a coffee with me through https://nkdagility.com.