I got introduced to Cban by Daniel Vante and Steve Porter when I did the participated in the first professional Scrum with Cban class back in 2018, late '17, early '18. I didn't fundamentally understand at the time the value of this different way of thinking, of this observational tool. I think it's quite important to understand that Cban is not a system itself. That's why Pro Cban and the Cban guide talks about it as a strategy. It's a strategy for understanding your existing system and then actively managing the flow of work through that existing system.

We talked about it in that context, within the context of a Scrum team, and how we can actively manage the flow of work within the system, use the Cban metric to augment our existing, perhaps awesome, Scrum process in order to really understand the predictability that we're getting and increase that predictability for the business. Because lots of teams do struggle with their ability to deliver. They struggle with getting to the end of the Sprint and having working product. They struggle with consistently getting working product. They struggle with the quantity of working product, and that creates fear in the business because the business are paying a lot of money to get stuff, and they feel like they're getting that stuff in fits and starts in an unpredictable way. They feel like it's not what they asked for, it doesn't cost what they thought it would, and it's not delivered when they thought it would.

Part of that is because they can't see what's going on. We're not giving them any information. The standard Scrum team is not giving the business any information to reassure them. They're not doing transparency right. They're not increasing the transparency to a level where the people viewing who need to understand actually understand what's going on, and that creates that fear. That means that we want to have more control. When we fear something isn't working out, when we fear that our money isn't being spent well, we want to take more control of that thing. That's the knee-jerk regression that we get from a lot of teams in organisations when a lot of teams move towards Scrum because they take away some of the tools for measuring productivity from the teams. 

Because in Agile, we don't measure productivity, they take that stuff away, but then they don't replace it with anything. Because they don't replace it with anything, transparency drops, fear increases, and then we want to go back to the old way. So a Cban strategy, and this is something that I've learned really over the last five years of working with Daniel Vante and the Cban guide and Pro Cban, is that the only way to be successful is to use a Cban strategy. Because we need to understand our predictability, we need to understand and actively manage the flow of work through the system, and we are not going to be successful if we don't do that. 

So I recommend a Cban strategy for any team doing anything in any context. That's right, any team doing anything in any context. If you're a marketing team delivering marketing content, if you're a software team delivering software and you're using Scrum, you're a software team using SAFe, you're a software team using something else that you made up yourself, or you're a management team managing a portfolio, or I don't know, I'm trying to think of other things. If you work in a factory and you're delivering stuff, you should be using a Cban strategy in all of those contexts. That is the metrics you need in order to then be successful. 

Because those metrics create transparency. Transparency allows you to make better decisions and ask more interesting questions, and those interesting questions and better decisions result in more effective flow or stop doing the thing that you thought of. That's why Cban is so important to the strategy for every team building anything in any company. If you want to have a discussion about your unique needs or situation, then please book a call or visit us at Naked Agility. We also have our immersive and traditional public classes on our website, and we'd love to hear from you.