One of the things that a new product owner needs to understand is that there's a lot of their job which is about marketing. You're going to be marketing the vision that you have in your product to the people doing the work, to the people consuming the work, and to the people paying for the work. They might be different people. They have to buy into your story. They have to engage with what it is you're trying to do, and ultimately they need to engage emotionally with that story. That's what marketing is all about: how do you enable people to engage emotionally with what it is you're trying to do so that they're following with anticipation what it is that you're trying to do? That's how you get people engaged in your story.

One of the key issues I see in organisations is the great difficulty that product owners, especially new product owners, find in getting your stakeholders to turn up for your Sprint reviews. Right? Often times it's hard, even if they do turn up, to get them to provide you with feedback. Right? You ask them for feedback and all you can hear is tumble weeds rolling through the desert. Right? You're trying to engage them and they're just not getting there. And that's, to me, a marketing issue. They don't understand the value of what you're showing them. They're not emotionally engaged in what you're showing them. If they were emotionally engaged, they'd be desperate to sneak into that discussion and provide that feedback, provide you with more information. And that is part of marketing. You need to figure that out: how do you get into that story?

We talk about it in the Professional Scrum Product Owner only a little bit. I talk about it more in the course, where does... So, I like this topic, but also we talk about it a little bit more in depth in the Advanced Product Owner because we start talking about the visionary and the collaborator and the different aspects of the product owner. And that's where it starts to matter a little bit more when you get a little bit more advanced. But marketing is that piece that enables you to sell your story and your conversation to the other people that are involved in your product and maximise the value that you're delivering.

Because all the people funneling, providing input to your funnel, that results in your product backlog, that results in the value that you're delivering as you release to customers. Everybody's following the same funnel rather than buffing against it with friction because they're all going in different directions. Is your leadership of your organisation, are your members of your team, are your customers all aligned in where you're going and what you're trying to achieve? That's your job as a product owner: to figure that out.

If you find it hard to enable this engagement with your stakeholders and get them into your Sprint reviews, my team at N Agility can help perfect your ability to do that, or we can find somebody who can help you. Don't let these sorts of issues inhibit your ability to deliver value. That lack of feedback at the review kind of sucks. Use the links in the description to get help as soon as you can.