Why do I think the advanced PSPO is a perfect fit for entrepreneurs? Because it focuses on the things that entrepreneurs need to think about and maybe sometimes they don't.

Are what are you focused on? What type of product owner, right? Or are you looking to be? What are the facets of the product owner that you need to reflect in order to have a successful product in a successful business? Quite often people believe that they just have to be the Steve Jobs type, right, and focus on innovation and doing something different. But that maybe doesn't, is that going to alienate your existing customers that are just looking for refinements and the features that they already have? Is that going to alienate your development teams who feel like we're always reaching for the new thing and never finishing the thing that we've got? Is that going to, you know, if you just focus on one of those facets of the product or stances of the product owner, then you're missing out on a whole bunch of other things that need to be done. You need balance, right? And I think that's really the core focus of the advanced product owner is not just to say, you know, yeah, you might be in this category. Where do you feel you are? Because we do have that conversation, right? Where would you put yourself in these six stances of the product owner that we're going to talk about in the class? But also, and talk about each of those stances and what they're missing from those stances. Because quite often product owners do a little bit of that thing, right? We talk a lot in the class about hypothesis-driven engineering, right? You don't necessarily, although data informs, but doesn't control the choices you make. You need to get that data, and how do you get that data? And how do you decide whether the feature that you're creating is actually valuable? Like, what numbers are you trying to shift, and how are you going to measure it? So that whole holistic focus across the product, across your customers, not just in innovation, but in customer focus, in collaboration, in doing deals with people, right? How do you collaboratively create those most amazing products? And that for me is the value of the advanced product owner.

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else, agile, scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.
