So in my view, poly immersive learning experience has a lot of fantastic benefits. But when speaking about three, the most important ones. So first one, we are in a complex world, right? So we obviously don't know what we don't know. We have some knowledge about risks and ambiguities. What will most likely happen is that when you go back to your environment, you will see, "Oh, some of the things don't work as expected," or "The outcome is not the one that I was hoping for." So every assignment brings this opportunity that you learn, "Okay, it did not work." You come back. So it's a fantastic learning feedback loop because you can go back for additional coaching feedback from the trainer. You may share your findings with other participants, and you will have some inspirations for what to do when moving forward.

The second benefit that I can think of is about time. As I already mentioned, I believe some of the students simply need time to digest, to think, to reflect. It's a natural, in my view, it's a natural feeling. You simply need this retrospective time for yourself. And in this immersive class way, you have regular time for reflection. You have more time for digesting the whole content, and this format brings you regular opportunities to ask more questions when you are ready.

Last but not least, the problem is very typical for many students. I'm amazed with the class. A lot of learnings, a lot of tools, but I came back and, well, I forgot. I did not have time, right? And with this format, we are holding you accountable. We are helping you with that because every module has an assignment, a small experiment that you are supposed to conduct in your professional environment. And thanks to that, you can hold yourself accountable. After the whole learning journey, you will have a set of a few, maybe even several experiments conducted in your professional environment. It might be for you a great opportunity to create habits of experimentation and learning through that in your organisation.