Yeah, I don't see you're saying I'm the CTO at Great Calm. So after the Lord evaluation of differences from training options, we selected Martin because I think he'd bring daily perspective. They very close to what I call the weaker engineer, the dragon troublemakers, and he brings a great perspective that's close to the makers. Scrum training session, which is what I thought about a lot, you know, everything else about making sure the great days of the builders are successful in doing their best work, and I think Martin does a great job in connecting with them.

So we decided to train everybody because it is critical to baseline understanding of Scrum in the organisation. What I expected every shop is that you start with following the standard framework and use one, and you create a variation. Facts, we should create a normal and expecting. It's just that in an organisation where you have a lot of new people joining, everybody brings their own flavour and understanding of what's come and agile means, and it creates more dissonance. So we come to create by the feedback that they received for training from all the lab students and then maybe process and so that I think it resonates in everybody that Martin is very close to the makers in the village, and that shows in how he teaches a class, and that's pretty consistent feedback.

The ICMS value in the organisational change backlog that comes out of the training is the team getting us what we need to change in relationship. Reorganisation and big initiative makes my mother to bots to expectation. After the training, my expectation is the organisation should change its senior levels, which is what the organisation macron is about. And the other is that individual teams should be sure are talking to different that are one, that is one individual folder.

My belief is that this training in the air hoist that father would help us improve our on to true coat and crumbs off both just delivery, i.e., getting the shipment out of the door gate laces. How the world is only not more feature from strategy for customers, but also to put in turns off the needle of the business metric. That reason, the only thing I reading, but you know, when I first took the password margin a few years ago at my previous game, I personally took the class and I was very impressed because, again, I think I am still an engineer at hide and connected me. So that whole cut God in the name of modern among the candidate Cheney, and I'm glad that the feedback I've gotten so far is very consistent from the team. Great job, but Monahan, great job from our team left naked Martin to come here.