The question is, are there any Scrum courses that teach you how to scale? And the answer is no, there's not. There's not any Scrum courses that teach you how to scale, but there are Scrum courses that help you understand the tools and techniques that you can use to build your own scaling framework. That's probably the best way to describe it.

Every successful organisation that I've seen operating at scale, I've worked with organisations with 600 people working on one product. I've worked with organisations that have four and a half thousand people working on one product. These are all scaling situations. Those are mega scaling situations. For most organisations, you're probably looking at just two or three or maybe four or five Scrum teams working together delivering value, but they have to deliver it together.

I'm working on an engagement right now where we've got about 13 teams working together on one common outcome. And how do you scale that? The answer is that there is no prescribed way to scale. You have to find a way that works for your organisation.

So the course that we have, scaled professional Scrum, is from Scrum.org and it focuses on a little bit around a framework, right? But that's a tiny, tiny, tiny, tiny part of this course. The Nexus framework that we talk about is not really much more than Scrum, and it talks about three to nine teams working together on one outcome. But what it does heavily focus on is about 50 different practices that you can use to help you build your own scaling framework.

Just like Scrum is not a method for delivering software, Scrum is a framework around which you can build your own method for delivering software. In the same way, Nexus is not a method for delivering software; it's a framework, a scaffolding, so that we make sure that we're not missing something as we continue to build and iterate on our own framework. What practices are going to work for you in building your scaling framework for your teams in your organisation?

Please do not start with everything in the kitchen sink. That's a bad place to start. You want to start small. What's the smallest thing we can improve and change? And then what's the next thing after that? What's the next thing after that to make things a little bit better? And you'll build a framework that's suited specifically for the product, specifically for the organisation that you're in, that entity of your organisation.

So that's a lot of work, right? The scaling class that we have is not going to teach you how to install a scaling framework in your organisation. It's going to teach you the foundations of you being able to build your own scaling framework that fits your organisation like a glove. I think that is the best way to enable scaling.

There's a little bit of a kickstart; there are some things that are definitely very common. If you're interested, the two things that you really need to focus on are dependency management. That's the killer for most organisations, so we spend a ton of time talking about and dealing with dependency management. The other one is alignment—alignment between your product, the organisation, and the people. You need alignment there; that things smoothly flow through that system. If the architecture is different from the way you organise the people, the architecture of your product is different from the way you organise the people, it's going to generate friction.

So the tools and techniques that we deliver in the course, about 50 different practices, we might not talk about all of them, but there are 50 different practices in the pot. They are all there to help you figure out how to best scale your product and your teams for your organisation.

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else—Agile, Scrum, or DevOps—then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.