So the initial response to the immersive learning has been incredibly positive. Almost every single pair, I can't think of anybody I've spoken to that have said, "Well, that sounds like it sucks. I'd rather do a two-day class." Nobody said that. Everybody detests the full-time two-day workshop. I don't know why we kept doing it for so long. Actually, I do know why we kept doing it for so long. It's because we insisted on trainers going on site to do it, which means that you have to do it in a short period of time because the company that you work for doesn't want to pay for me in a hotel for six weeks and all the stuff that that entails in order to be able to deliver a six-week workshop, right?

So we need to compress it into a short period of time. Now, in the virtual space, we're free to experiment with different formats, different ways of engaging with students, and it's really resonating with the people that are thinking about taking the class or wanting to be part of it. We've already had customers express interest. We've had customers buy onto, especially the PSPO, which has been hugely popular because they're really interested in that continuous development, right? That conversation that you have over a longer period of time so that you're not just, "Here's a bunch of content. Bye, that's it." That's a two-day class, right? This is more, "Here's a little bit of content and here's something to try in your business. Go try it, come back next week, and let's have a chat about it. How did you get on? How did it work? What happened?" 

That piece, businesses, especially small to medium-sized businesses, really see that extra value that they get for it, for really not that much extra cost, right? It's spreading that out over a longer period of time, closing those feedback loops, getting people really embedding those ideas. Not, oh, my favourite expression that actually one of my good friends, Jim, mentioned is that a job as a trainer is to plant seeds, right? Seeds of ideas that are then going to grow into something. 

One of the problems with the two-day format is you're planting a whole bunch of seeds and you don't know what's going to grow, and nobody's coming back to water those seeds or care for them, right? That's just self-service. You've seeds are on your own figuring out how to expand that, whereas this format is the gardener's coming back, tending all of the different plants, the different seeds. You know, if these plants in this area aren't getting enough water, they can spend more time on that, and that really gets those thought processes going. 

I'm really looking forward to these immersive classes. Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else, Agile, Scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.