One of the seven virtues of Agile is humility. We need to realise, especially product owners and product managers, that the things we expect to be valuable, or the things that we think are valuable, are not always the things that are actually valuable. Just because it's our idea and our thinking doesn't mean that it's going to be successful. And that's true for the product owner thinking about ideas and the product. It's also true for developers, right? People doing the work thinking that their idea is the best. 

How do you collaborate as a team? Do you collaborate with arrogance, thinking, "I'm always right and you're always wrong," or do you collaborate with humility? "Here's my idea, and maybe it's a good one; maybe it's not. Let's discuss." Bringing modesty and respect for others into the conversation in agility is going to help you build trust, right? Build those empathetic relationships both within the team, within the organisation, and leadership, and outwardly towards customers. 

Don't make assumptions, right? That's the key risk here: making assumptions. And also cognitive bias, although that's more difficult to detect in yourself. Usually, you need somebody else to look in on it to point it out. But then, do you listen to those people? Do you realise that perhaps other people's perceptions are important to our decision-making? I'm not saying blindly listen to what other people say, right? I'm saying we need to take that into consideration. 

So, in order in the product world, in the product management world, to be humble, having humility, we need to be looking at how people see our ideas and see our product, how they see us. We need to be looking at the data, right? There are facts in this story, but you know we can interpret as lies, damn lies, and statistics, right? We can interpret facts differently, but having those facts to hand—how are people using the features in our product? How are they engaging? How do the people on our teams feel about the way that we engage in this product world? How are employees happy? What's their morale like? 

Having that data to hand will help us make better decisions, and we need the humility to look at the results, to listen to what people say, and perhaps make a change to the way we do things because we're not always right. 

If you are having difficulty getting the most out of the seven virtues of agility, then my team at Naked Agility can help you, or find a consultant, coach, or trainer who can. It's essential for you to find help as soon as you can and not wait. Use the links below to get in touch because you don't just need agility; you need Naked Agility.