There are a number of ghosts of Agile past that plague us and the first one that I want to talk about is story points. The person that originally created the idea of story points has publicly apologised for creating them. That should tell you something about story points. But ultimately, story points have been with us for a very long time. In the old, old, old days, people used to do a lot of absolute estimation. So things like hours, right? We used to figure out exactly how many hours this thing would take. This will take 5,000 hours. And then we would perhaps measure ourselves against how many hours it did take. And in order to kind of move away from that idea of hours and absolute estimation, a lot of teams started talking about relative estimation and relative estimation points in some way. And that could be t-shirt sizes I often hear, but the main one is story points. Story points have been with us probably for about, about 20 years. They've been plaguing, they've been haunting teams for about 20 years. 

And story points create a whole bunch of, wow, really difficult things with teams. So one of them is that you'll often see or hear teams having a conversation about how they claim points for the work that they've done so that they can push the rest of the work that they haven't done into the next sprint. That's pretty dysfunctional behaviour right? The point is not the points, the point is the value that we're delivering and that's what we should be focusing on, not some arbitrary set of points. 

We also see teams being measured or compared across teams based on their story points. This team delivers 30 story points per sprint, this team delivers 20 story points per sprint, so this team must be better than this team and that is utter garbage. There is no way to compare story points across teams. There is no way, there is no normalisation algorithm that you can use to do that comparison or create it in some way. It's just one of those agile bullshit things that keeps sticking around we can't get rid of. 

So the what was the other thing that story... Story... Oh! I recently engaged with a customer and they had a team that was struggling to deliver. It was actually five teams working on one product and they were struggling to deliver. And I was trying to figure out what the problem was and they kept going on about story points were the most important thing for them to progress and they had to get a specific number of story points. And this was a professional services organisation. And I found out that the contract that they had with the customer, obviously, somebody on the customer's side and somebody on their side had decided that it would be a great idea, because they've heard about these story point things, to put story points into the contract and they were contracted for an exact number of story points and if they were outwith a 15% deviation from the exact number of story points then there were fiscal penalties for the professional services organisation so you can imagine the raft of dysfunctional behaviours that resulted from that. 

I used to think story points were a good thing. I used to think they were a good thing. And now I'm a little bit more aligned with Daniel Vacanti on this. He's the Kanban, pro Kanban guy. Story points have set our industry back 20 years. Story points are one of the things that have restricted the ability for us to adapt to changing circumstances as we might have because there's that continuous focus on the numbers, continuous focus on the work that's done because story points reflect the work, not the value, right? Continuous focus on the work, the butts on the seats, rather than on the value that's created. 

So I'm a firm believer in flow metrics moving towards, they're not the be all and end all, right? Because we can have awesome flow and we're delivering tons of crap into production, but at least flow is telling us what's really going on, right? We're looking at our cycle time, we're looking at our work item aging, we're looking at our throughput, right? Those metrics are just based on historical fact for what we're delivering. We can certainly manipulate them by reducing batch size, which usually has good outcomes. And I just find that they're all round a more useful way of looking at the data of, and potentially looking across multiple teams as well for a whole department, for a whole organisation. What is it we're able to deliver, what does that look like? But ultimately, moving towards more flow-based metrics and away from relative size estimation, I think is a good idea. 

And that's why I put story points in that list of ghosts of Agile past. And if you are being haunted by these ghosts of Agile past, we can help you exercise them or help you find a coach, consultant or trainer who can. Don't let these phantoms undermine the effectiveness of the value that you deliver. And the longer you wait, the more they're going to haunt your team's progress. So send me an email at martin at nkdagility.com and we will get you the help you need to get to the bottom of it. If you want to have a discussion about your unique needs or situation, then please book a call or visit us at nakedagility.com. We also have our immersive and traditional public classes on our website and we'd love to hear from you.