So the question is, how critical is a product owner in developing a great product backlog? If you look at the Scrum Guide, then it will be absolutely imperative. They are the one that decides, makes the final decision, the arbiter of the product backlog. They are responsible and accountable for ordering the product backlog. Although they can delegate it, they're responsible for the contents of the product backlog. Although they can delegate it, they are 100% responsible for expressing and communicating the vision and strategy that results in all of those other things.

So if you think about what you might put in a product backlog, you're not going to know what to put in there unless you know what direction you're going. Product backlogs can quite often become just this massive dumping ground of whatever crap anybody asks for at any point in time, and that's not what you want. You want your product backlog to be a short list, a lean inventory of the work that needs to be done to maximise the value that you're going to deliver to your customers. This means if you have 5,000 things in your product backlog, you probably don't have a product owner. You've probably got somebody who's just dumping stuff in there, and if a customer makes a request, they just put it in there. Perhaps that's not the right customer request. Perhaps we should say no to that customer request. Perhaps we should ask the customer to keep it in their back pocket because it's not to do with our current strategy.

And those are really the core critical activities of the product owner that help us create this lean, directional product backlog that enables then the engineering team, the developers, to select the right things. Because it's all understood, it's transparent, we know what trade-offs we're making as developers. We know what trade-offs we're making when we choose this over that. Even though this is more important, we know we have to do this that first. And those are the types of conversations that we can only have if we have strong product leadership, a strong product owner on our product, who's able to communicate and express that strategy and direction effectively.

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else Agile, Scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.