Most Scrum Masters don't realise what's entailed in being a Scrum Master. Usually, that's because they've just been handed the role by their organisation, and perhaps the role of Scrum Master within their organisation is very different from what I'm talking about with the accountability of the Scrum Master within the context of Scrum. Because, you know, 25 years ago when Scrum was created, Scrum Master was a brand new term that didn't have any baggage, whereas today it has just about as much baggage, if not more, than any other term out there. 

So, as a Scrum Master, you do need to disambiguate the role that your organisation has, perhaps the job title right, and all of the different accountabilities that are included in that that might be nothing to do with Scrum as well. That's fine with the accountability for the Scrum Master within the context of Scrum. That accountability is for maximising the effectiveness of the team. That's really the whole thing in a nutshell. 

In order to do that, there are loads of tools that you need in your toolbox. There are loads of practices and processes that can make sense in that space, complimentary practices to Scrum. So, there's lots of things outside of Scrum that a Scrum Master needs to understand in order to be as effective as possible. But if you have a brand new Scrum team that have never done Scrum before, they're just starting out. The first thing that a Scrum Master is accountable for is the knowledge that the team have, their understanding of Scrum, their understanding of empiricism, the Scrum values. Teaching those things is really important for a Scrum Master. 

And then, once your team gets beyond that, engaging with not just the team but the rest of the organisation as well. Remember, the Scrum Master not only has accountabilities for the Scrum team, but they have accountabilities to the Product Owner and accountabilities to the organisation as well. So, enabling a team to be as effective as it can has much wider implications across the organisation. 

Because usually, once you've dealt with the knowledge, the knowledge that the team have about empiricism, about working product, and the value contained within that, it's organisational impediments that get in the way. It's things your organisation is doing which impedes the ability for the team to maximise its effectiveness. Getting focus on them, building relationships within the organisation, understanding the business processes, why they're there, and inevitably how to change them is a critical role for a critical area of understanding for the Scrum Master. 

So, if you want to be a Scrum Master, you don't have to come to Scrum training, but the Professional Scrum Master, and more importantly, the Advanced Scrum Master Class can really help you broaden your understanding of what is the context of a Scrum Master and become the most effective Scrum Master that you can be. If you want to have a discussion about your unique needs or situation, then please book a call or visit us at Naked Agility dot com. We also have our immersive and traditional public classes on our website, and we'd love to hear from you.