[Music] Most managers today are just expected to be leaders as well. They're given no training, no direction; they're just magically supposed to come up with these skills themselves, and that's just not always the case. There are exceptional people that don't need any additional input of knowledge; they're able to go off and find out all of this stuff themselves and put it into effect. 

But most of us benefit from a little bit of a helping hand. So we have the Agile Leadership class, which focuses on a manager transitioning into that servant leadership idea, where they're providing services to the team. They're enabling a team to be effective at the organisation level. So that's somebody who is learning how to delegate, learning how to hire the right people, learning how to connect the people doing the work with the outcomes that we're trying to achieve. All of those things are part of the Professional Agile Leadership class. 

But in addition to that, as a leader, it's important to understand how the changes that we're making in the organisation benefit the overall organisation, increase the effectiveness of the overall organisation. For that, we have the Evidence-Based Management class as well, where we're looking a little bit more deeply into how we measure people, what the impact of those measurements are, and how can we maximise the effectiveness. 

And how do we measure that? Right, that's effectively what it is: how do we measure that? And so it's very important that we understand all of those things as a leader in an organisation, so that we can make the right choices and know for sure that we're making progress in the right direction. Because we've designed a bunch of measures that are unique to our product or our organisation to help us see whether we're making progress towards the overall outcomes that we're trying to achieve. 

Most managers and leaders don't measure those things. They don't have a holistic understanding of where the organisation currently is, where the organisation's currently going, and how we're going to measure that progress towards it. And really, those two things are part of the key focus of both the Professional Agile Leadership class and the Evidence-Based Management class, to help leaders gain additional skills on top of the awesome ones they already have, to help them be as effective within the context of Agile as possible. 

If you want to have a discussion about your unique needs or situation, then please book a call or visit us at Naked Agility dot com. We also have our immersive and traditional public classes on our website, and we'd love to hear from you.