One of the key agile virtues that's often overlooked in organisations is diligence. Diligence is that attention to detail; it's doing the things that need to be done, having that level of focus that enables those things to happen. It's having a definition of done and following it, not just saying it's on the wiki, right? You actually follow it. Everybody on your team has the diligence to understand the definition of done, know the direction, and have the grit to follow it. You're not just paying lip service to this level of quality. Your definition of done is your compliance bar for what needs to happen in order for your product to be able to ship, and that is the diligence that your organisation expects.

The reason organisations and businesses don't really talk about the definition of done from a leadership perspective is because it's just expected that we'll have a level of quality that they're able to use. That's just the default. But unfortunately, it's not the default in many teams. So, have the diligence to create a level of quality, meet it, follow it, and perhaps expand it. Increase your level of diligence, increase your level of quality in your product, in the way you approach the work, in the way you approach working with others, and make your organisation successful.

If you are having difficulty getting the most out of the seven virtues of agility, then my team at NE Agility can help you, or find a consultant, coach, or trainer who can. It's essential for you to find help as soon as you can and not wait. Use the links below to get in touch because you don't just need agility; you need naked agility.