One of the key agile virtues is charity, and that manifests in our world as things like being willing to help each other for no specific gain. Right? I want to help my colleagues on the team because it helps us all, not because I get something out of it. I want to be looking at making sure that my team is successful, that my product is successful, that my company is successful, and I'm not necessarily doing it because I get my bonus. I'm doing it because it helps the people around me, that we're all better because of it, and that we're able to create the best possible products for our customers. That leads back to Dan Pink's autonomy, mastery, and purpose, right? I want to feel like the work that I do matters, and charity is part of that.

For example, I'm a Microsoft MVP. I don't get that MVP for paid work; I get that MVP for spending time in the community providing help and support to others for free. I do that both in the technical space and in the agile space. If you want to have a chat, you can go to my website and book a coffee, and we can talk about agile. We can talk about the things that are happening in your organisation, and if in half an hour I can fix your problem, that's great! We've had a coffee, we've had a chat, and you get something to try that might result in success. Right? I don't do that for direct remuneration; I do that because I like helping people. I like other people being successful. I want organisations to be successful in agile because that helps all of us, all the employees of the company, the entire ecosystem, and that's charity.

If you are having difficulty getting the most out of the Seven Virtues of Agility, then my team at Naked Agility can help you, or find a consultant, coach, or trainer who can. It's essential for you to find help as soon as you can and not wait. Use the links below to get in touch because you don't just need agility; you need Naked Agility.