So I believe that immersive learning is the future of, I think, almost all of this type of learning. Whether it's Scrum or Kanban or anything where people are involved, you've got a high degree of complexity. This is different from tools training, right? Different from tools training. But anytime you're talking about processes and practices that people have to organise around, I think the immersive learning approach is much more the future of the way that learning should be happening.

It's very difficult for people to spend two days or four half days in a class and then be able to go back into their organisation and actually change something. It's very difficult because they'll go to try and change something in their organisation and they'll run into all of these roadblocks, all of these things that get in the way, and there's nobody there to help and support them because, you know, we did the training a couple of weeks ago and now we're doing this, and we run into those roadblocks.

So the immersive format allows people to keep coming back around and having those questions, having them answered, especially the longer immersive stories. So they last six to ten weeks, and collaborating around with that group of people, bringing those learnings back to the organisation. This is a total game changer for the learning experience that people get when they come to these types of classes.

So definitely, the future of Scrum training is immersive. If you want to have a discussion about how immersive classes can revolutionise your training experience, then please book a call on our website. Alternatively, you can find all of our public immersive classes listed there as well, and we would love to hear from you.