One of the seven virtues of agility is kindness. Kindness could be compassion, it could be benevolence, it could be empathy, and it could be directed in a number of different places within our organisation. The two key things that I'm thinking about are, one, the customer. We have this relentless customer focus that we're trying to deliver something that adds value in the market. For that, we need to focus on the customer. We need to be compassionate about the customers' issues and their difficulties and what it is they're trying to achieve. That could be, you know, when dealing with bug reports, or it could be just with engaging with them and talking to them about the problems that they're encountering and trying to solve within our product domain. 

We want to be benevolent; we want to be seen as providing them with something that helps enable them to do something else. If they see our product as a burden or they see our product as, I don't know, what's the cost version of burden? For me, burden's broad, and then there's a cost, like a cost centre. If they see your product as a cost centre, then they're not going to think of your product with kindness, and you're probably not thinking of them with kindness. 

So that relentless customer focus, building empathy with your customers. Why do people queue up outside of an Apple store to buy the latest product? It's absolutely not because they have the best products; it's because there's an empathetic connection between the customers and the company and the products that they're trying to create and the vision and the outcome that the company has. Building those stories is really important. 

You don't do that by doing something negative towards your customers. You don't do that by screwing them over. You do that by building, again, trust—building trust with the customers with kindness. The other side that I was thinking of was the developers. Are we, the people doing the work, building compassion and benevolence and empathy with them? How do our employees see our organisation? What do they think about our organisation? 

I was listening to Richard Branson, and he did a talk where he was talking about that your employee happiness is a leading indicator of your customers' happiness. If your employees are unhappy but your customers are happy, it won't be long until your customers are also unhappy. If your employees are happy but your customers are unhappy, it won't be long until your customers are happy because people that are happy and engaged do the right thing. They do the thing that helps other people rather than, you know, kind of being dismissive and disgruntled. 

You need people to think with kindness, and in order to do that, you need to demonstrate that compassion, that benevolence, that empathy within the context of your organisation to your employees, and they will then demonstrate that to the customers and build value in your brand, value in your organisation, and value in your market. 

If you are having difficulty getting the most out of the seven virtues of agility, then my team at Naked Agility can help you, or find a consultant, coach, or trainer who can. It's essential for you to find help as soon as you can and not wait. Use the links below to get in touch because you don't just need agility; you need Naked Agility.