Having Scrum Masters that have a lack of competence within the context of the team's work, the product owner's work, and the organisational structure means that you're going to be getting less return on your investment. I mean, that's fundamentally what it is. The team is probably going to be delivering less stuff. It's probably going to be making fewer bets on new stuff, so you're probably going to spend less time on that new stuff, and they're probably going to have higher defect rates, right? Because they don't have the modern engineering excellence and DevOps practices that are needed to build awesome products in today's world.

There are absolutely teams out there that are doing this without Scrum Masters, right? I'm not disagreeing with that. I'm saying that if you have a Scrum Master with the capability to help a team maximise those capabilities, then you're going to be able to vastly increase your ROI for your team. But you need Scrum Masters with those competencies; otherwise, all you're going to get is teams that are happier with each other, not teams that are able to actually deliver more stuff. Both of those things are important, but delivering more stuff is where your ROI comes in.

What I would want you to do is collect some metrics and use those metrics to measure the fundamental benefit that the Scrum Masters are bringing you, okay? Bang for their buck, right? Here are some examples. I'm going to use an example over here because I have some data around it. I would want to measure innovation rate, which is the percentage of time that your team spends working on net new functionality versus maintenance and support and augmenting existing functionality. 

If you're Netflix, that's a new series versus a second season of an existing series, right? Or remastering some older series, right? So that's this measure. I want to measure my on-product index. I want to be measuring the percentage of time that my team members have to work on my product versus having to work on other things. What percentage of time are they actually working on my product? 

I want to be monitoring my usage index for my product, so I'm looking at the data around how my users interact with my product, right? That's a great metric. And then perhaps, if you have an app that is installed, I maintain and support one. You have the installed version index: what percentage of people running your tool are on the latest version of the tool, and what percentage are on older versions of the tool? Because that goes to engineering excellence and various things.

Let's say you had those metrics. I'm going to tell you the industry standard for each of those metrics, and we're going to base it on a dollar. And yeah, I'm using US dollar, pound, Euro, whatever you want. For each dollar you spend on your product, what you lose by each of these metrics. The innovation rate is about 29%. That's the average innovation rate; that's from the DORA metrics. So for every dollar that you spend on your product, you're getting about 29 cents of net new value, right? For opening up new markets, for adding new capabilities to your products, 29 cents. 

So you're 29 cents in the dollar, right off the bat. Most teams spend about 80% of their time working on the product and 20% of their time doing other stuff for the organisation. So that could be meetings, all hands, training stuff, right? It's about, I think that's about a day a week, isn't it? Something like that. Anyway, so now you're down to 23 cents in the dollar because you've lost 20%.

What about usage index? What do you think the metric shows? The data that I've seen, some of it's from real customers. The happy metrics are from the Chaos Report from the Standish Group in Boston, and they found that only about 35% of the features that are built are actually used by your customers. Only about 35%, right? That's because we're not changing fast enough; we're not adapting fast enough. 35%. So now we're down to 8 cents on the dollar. 

8 cents on the dollar. Eight out of 100, right? 8 cents return on investment for a $1 input. What the heck? That is terrible. 8 cents on the dollar. And that metric is really optimistic. I did some work with a bank in the US who said that 35% usage index? That's crap. We know our customers way better than that. We understand they're using all of our features, or as much as, you know, they're, oh, we're 80%, right? 

So we said, why don't we add some telemetry onto your product and let's see? They are cloud-based products; it was easy. So we added telemetry to the product, we gave it three months, and we looked at the data, and it was about 8% of the features in the product were actually used by their customers. And that was over a year-end. Luckily, we were just in the right time for that, so it was over a year-end. So that was a really good picture: 8%, not 35%. 8% of the features. 

So that wouldn't be 8 cents in the dollar; that would be a lot less. And then let's say installed version index: let's say it's 70%. 70% of your users are on the latest version of your product. Now we're down to 6 cents on the dollar. Do you even know what your numbers look like? Just those metrics: innovation rate, on-product index, usage index, and installed version index. It's only four metrics. Go collect them and then measure your progress over time. 

If you hire Scrum Masters, they should be able to change those numbers. Your Scrum Masters should be accountable for the effectiveness of the team, and you can measure the effectiveness of the team within the context of a product by some of these metrics. These are not the only metrics; I just picked four, right? Because I have some data around them. Pick some metrics that are product-based metrics, value-based metrics for you as a business, and expect those numbers to improve when you hire Scrum Masters. If they don't, you've got the wrong Scrum Masters.