So the first in our series of harbingers of the agile apocalypse is really about the Antichrist. What is the Antichrist of agile? I think if you've been following me at all, you'll know exactly what my answer is going to be, and that's that Alpha organizational structure—the traditional management structure in organizations—that creates environments within which you have that steering from the top. 

So you've got the market at the bottom, where we're interacting directly between the people in the company and the customers, and then you've got this hierarchy up the organization to somebody who's the decision maker or makes decisions or needs approval for something or whatever that is. That's one of the facets of the Alpha organization where that type of model inhibits the ability of the organization to move towards agility. 

You can absolutely get little wins, right? You can make things a little bit better. You can improve your time to market. You can improve the ability of the teams to deliver. A team could be doing continuous delivery. You can do all of those things to make the team as effective as possible, but ultimately, within that traditional organizational structure, you're not going to be able to have a product owner who decides what it is we're working on, that looks at market, looks at budget, engages with customers, decides what and when to release, decides what we're going to build, where are we going to invest money in this product, where are we not going to invest money, what's our pricing strategy for our product. 

Those are all things that are often decided far higher up the organization. So as organizations flow from the Alpha model of top-down commanding control—I mean, it's not, it's commanding control oversimplifying it, right?—but that top-down steering-based style towards a more beta, democratized, self-organizing format, more of a sales-based structure that is able to interact directly with the market, as they move towards that, you'll start to see more and more benefits in the organization. 

But what happens in most organizations is the Antichrist blocks it. This Alpha top-down organization where somebody says, "No, I'm not going to approve that," or "You need to get my approval for all of those things," or "I don't know any of these things," that just get in the way and mean that the organization never crosses that line and starts its journey towards decentralization. They never start making that journey towards decentralization because we work this way; this is our hierarchy; this is how we do things. And that is the killer to agile in your organization. 

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else—agile, scrum, or DevOps—then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.