The applying scaling portfolio cbank class is really about how do we look at our system no longer at the team level but how do we look at our system at the organisation level at the programme level. Um, and what how how do we then understand, analyse the work and create effective strategies for enabling that flow of portfolio items through our system to increase the amount of value that we deliver for our products to increase predictability so that we can have a better understanding of which things are likely to be successful, which things we need to cut our losses on, um, which things need to be changed drastically in order to result in that value creation.

And so it really focuses at for heads of departments, so agile coaches, project managers, development leads, high-level product owners, scrum masters and product managers that are trying to deliver lots of things, um, that may be competing things into production. Um, and they need to increase the flow through the system. Right, we want to deliver um more stuff more quickly. We want to get faster and more predictable um at delivery and those are all things that we're going to talk about in the applying scaled portfolio cbank class.

So this course will help um leaders in organisations understand the current flow through their system and ask more interesting questions about what they can do differently to improve the flow and predictability through the system. Um, so whatever your system is at that level, how do you understand what is going on in portfolio and increase that flow of delivery of work for the business and increased predictability?

If you want to have a discussion about your unique needs or situation, then please book a call or visit us at Naked Agility. Um, we also have our immersive and traditional public classes on our website and would love to hear from you.