Moving from a legacy mindset to modern engineering practices is more than just technical, right? Engineering excellence isn't just technical. It's a cultural thing within the context of your teams.

If there isn't a culture of absorbing change, rolling with the punches, if there isn't a culture of continuous learning, of continuous improvement, if there isn't a culture of continuously adapting your processes to what you learn, continuously adapting your products and your vision to what you learn, continuously adapting the work items that you have based on what you learn and how users engage with it, then it's going to be very difficult to move from a legacy mindset, which is write it once and it's there for posterity, to a continuously refactored code base that adapts to your business's needs in the same way that your business's needs adapt, right? Or at least as close behind as you possibly can.

And that migration from "I've got a legacy system", because the reality is that the Big Bang rewrite is a complete fallacy. It hardly ever works out and it hardly ever costs what you think it's going to cost. It's usually the most expensive way to rebuild your software. And worse, if you take all the software engineers that built your existing legacy, poorly coded, poorly architected product and you have them rebuild a new product, why would you think the outcome would be any different? Why would the new product be any more scalable, sustainable, adaptable, testable, maintainable, right? All the ables. Why would it be more of those things than the old one? I mean, it may be a little bit more because people learn over time, but it's not going to stick with it more.

So, the way it does work is you need to change your product in place. You don't replace your product wholesale. You don't build a new version off on the side. I see teams, organizations do that all the time. I worked with an organization quite a few years ago and they were on their fifth attempt at Big Bang rewrite of this one product, but they were on their fifth attempt of it. Every few years they had another attempt, and usually when times are good, we're making a lot of money, and then something happens in the market or whatever and we're not making so much money. So what's the project that we cut? This current existing product that's providing us value and cash flow, or this cost sink of an attempted rewrite that is not providing any value right now? It's a total no-brainer business decision. You cancel the new thing. And they've been through six attempts of it, right? This is super common.

So what we do is we fix our application in place. Yes, that's harder. Yes, that costs more, but it doesn't cost more than six attempts at rewriting because you do each thing right. You've got your application, you build a new piece, you hook it in to the main application, you do all the testing, validation. Awesome. We've replaced that piece. We've added value to the system. The system is now faster, more scalable, more sustainable because we've added this new piece in and we designed it in the way that solid principles, that it's adaptable and all those kind of things.

So we've got a new piece in, but the rest of our application is still legacy. What's the next piece we need to go fix and the piece after that? And if you have many teams, you can tackle many pieces at once and continuously progress. Your new application emerges from the old one, right? Your new capabilities emerge from the old one. And that's how you build sustainable change. That's how you build a sustainability mindset into your teams, into the culture of your organization, that you're fixing things as you go, that you're adapting things as you go, that you're having to go back and clean up your own messes, so don't make the next mess.

And that work to do that is what teaches us, right, to do it better the first time, the second time, right? When we're refactoring, "Oh no, now I've built this thing. I realize how I should have built it and I get a chance to refactor it. I get a chance to change it," and do that continuously for your application within the context of we're still adding new features to our application and you'll get to where you need to be.

It will take time. It will probably take longer than just focusing on a Big Bang rewrite, but it's less risky, less chance of cancelling. And you do both things. You rebuild your product and you rebuild the culture of your organization and the mindset from a legacy mindset towards one of engineering excellence.

And that's something that I work with teams often on, that idea of fixing things in place, of adapting the things that we already have. So, we're adding value, not cost. And if you want your people to be as ready as you need your platforms to be, let us help you make that change stick.
