I would definitely recommend the PSP Auto and entrepreneur. I invite the advanced PSPO as well, but that key focus on value from the PSPO and what add your product management looks like are all key things that an entrepreneur needs to bring into their way of doing things, their story of how things happen for them. Because usually, especially for entrepreneurs, their organisations are very small, especially at the start, and they're going to be fulfilling the role of product owner. They're going to set the tone for leadership and product management inside of their organisation. Even if later on they're handing that torch off to somebody else because they're being successful, they're making good decisions, and then they're getting a little bit bigger and they're able to hand that torch off, that torch needs to come with, "Here's what we're trying to achieve, here's where we're going." Yes, we have really thought about value, and I think it's even more important for an entrepreneur because you want to get past that startup phase.

I don't know what percentage of organisations fail; I don't know the exact percentage of organisations, startups that fail, but it's most of them, right? Most startups are going to fail, and one of the reasons that they fail is that they don't have that tight focus on value. They don't understand what's value, what's value to their customers, and they haven't had those conversations, written it down, understood it, discussed it. We have loads of tools in the product owner class that you can use as part of that story. How do I figure out what those things are? How do I think about those things in order to bring everybody in my team along with me and help us understand what it is we're trying to achieve?

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else agile, scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.