A common thing that I see happening in Scrum teams and any product teams, to be honest, any product teams, is that they have contempt. They have contempt for their leadership, they have contempt for their company, they have contempt for their product, they have contempt for their customers, and they have contempt for the outcomes. This is a little bit more than they just don't care; it's that they actively dislike, have disdain for choices that are made. This is largely, I think, because those choices are made in spite of their opinions and their understanding of the product and the direction that the company needs to go. Choices are being made without their support—input might be the right words. They don't feel like they're listened to on their teams or as part of their organisation, and that seems to be a trend of traditional organisations. 

We're just going to steer from the top; therefore, we actually don't care what the people on the ground say or do or understand. That's irrelevant. We're making the decisions at the top, and unfortunately, it's the people on the ground that tend to be closest to the market. It's the people at the top that tend to be furthest away from the market, and this constant ignoring of the realities of the market, the realities of the situation, the realities of the product, the realities of the quality of the product breeds contempt in the people that are doing the work for the organisation they work for. 

A great example is that I used to work for an organisation in the UK, pretty near to where I live. This was back when I was an employee, and I think it was one of the last employee jobs I had. There was absolute, abject, and constant contempt by every single employee for the organisation they worked for. So much so that they had a nickname for the company. The company at the time—I don't think it exists anymore—was called Intelligent Finance. It was one of the first internet banks, but the nickname that the employees had, at least within the bounds of what I was interacting with for the organisation they worked for, was that they changed the "Intelligent" to "Incompetent" and the "F" in Finance to a Scottish term for somebody who's not very smart. 

If you're going to think of your company as incompetent, what does that mean for the attitude and investment that people bring to work every day? It's going to mean that it's reduced or doesn't even exist. There were a number of things that kind of led to that feeling. I remember while I was there, there was a new CIO for the organisation who admitted that he had trouble with email. This is the Chief Information Officer for the organisation admitting that he struggled to leverage email as a tool. You can't make that up. 

The guy I sat next to, a user experience person, admitted to me that he felt like he was unemployable because he'd worked there for four years and not done anything new. Think about those things. This was back in 2005 or 2006, so we're pretty far into Windows 2000, pretty far into the .NET Framework and all of those capabilities. I had an NT4 workstation as a .NET developer. NT4 does not support .NET, so it took me weeks to get a badge, and then I had to request, using my badge, a machine to be installed under my desk that ran Windows 2000 that I could then remote into from my desktop. 

That disconnect—that's the focus here. That disconnect between what the people are doing and what the organisation believes is happening in the direction they believe that they're going is the problem that creates that kind of disgust, contempt for the organisation that people work for. They don't believe that it's going anywhere; they don't believe that they're just there for the paycheck, and that's it. I quit. I was the shortest employee ever at this organisation. I quit after six weeks. I did not want to exist in that culture of contempt for their organisation. 

One of my favourite sayings is, "Change your company or change your company." So I went with my feet and walked out the door. What is your organisational culture? If you're in leadership, how do the people on the ground see your organisation? Do they believe in what you're doing? Do they feel like they're engaged and involved in what it is you're trying to achieve? Do they feel listened to? These are all the things that create a group of people that are engaged and want to see the organisation succeed. 

Unhappy, sad people don't build amazing products; they build unhappy, sad products. One of the core responsibilities and accountabilities of leadership is to create a happy, engaged workforce that wants the organisation to succeed, and you can't do that by just telling people what to do. 

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else—Agile, Scrum, or DevOps—then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.