In our new class, we will learn how to work with assumptions. So first, a very important point: we actually introduce assumption to our product development dictionary. One of the very important points we will learn is this moment of realisation: oh, we have made assumptions, and not one, not two, but many. 

So what kind of assumptions are we making when developing products, when discussing potential product futures, when creating product backlog items? This is a very important aspect, but we are not only talking about this fact. Okay, the assumptions were made, but which of them need to be validated? Obviously, not every assumption requires validation. Some of them are more important, less important; there might be a crucial role in ordering our assumptions. So which should be validated first and why? We are going to cover that in this course.

Okay, so first point: assumptions realisation, ordering, and choosing which one to start. The second one, when we work with assumptions, the next important topic is about hypothesis. So we will learn how to create hypotheses and how to test them. In this class, we will pay a lot, a lot of attention to using the right data that will help you verify your hypothesis. 

In fact, we may realise that our product development is actually navigating around some kind of tree of different hypotheses to test. We will also discuss the topic of the importance of desired signal or evidence strength on our product development process. So when we test assumptions, when we talk about hypothesis-driven development, it's important to realise that there will never be 100% confidence. But what is your desired level of confidence? And based on that, how high do you want to be when it comes to confidence? 

We will be talking about experiments that will help us test the hypothesis. So we will learn how to manage costs related to product development based on those experiments that we choose, and this will be aligned with desired signal strength and desired confidence level. 

Another valuable outcome for us is learning how to analyse experiments, how to take what we got out of our experimentation journey, and how to use this data in the decision-making process. So we already talked that learning is important in this class. So think about it as a way of targeted learnings that will help in this decision-making and critical thinking. 

Thanks to that, we want to avoid toxic love related to our ideas and to what customers told us. Instead, we will be equipped with a certain way of thinking. Maybe for some of us, it will be a new perspective on product development, and thanks to that perspective, we will be learning a lot about what to do, what not to do, and how to use those concepts to be effective in our product development.