Naked Agility helps organisations create a culture of engineering excellence. I struggle with the idea of creating culture; culture is just what is within the organisation. But what we can help you do is think of culture as the shadow on the wall. You need to change the shape of the thing in order to change the shadow on the wall, and Naked Agility can help you understand your current system of delivering value in order to measure the things that make an impact on where you want to go and what you want to achieve. 

In order to create the highest value optimisation that we can have within your context, we do that by monitoring the system, identifying what your system is, and defining that system of delivering value. Then we create or help you create metrics and understanding and transparency of that system so that you can see what's going on and make better decisions that enable you to get to the outcomes that you're trying to achieve. 

These outcomes could be reducing cost or maximising value. I would go for maximising value, to be honest. This idea of technical leadership and engineering excellence within the context of building software products is that overall ethos of understanding your system, measuring it so you can see what's going on, and then making substantive changes to that system to see whether you're able to optimise the goals and outcomes that you're trying to achieve. 

Those are all things that we can help you do. We can help you control your costs and achieve technical leadership with Naked Agility. Contact me today to get started on your journey.