Of why have I decided to go all in on a massive learning experiences? I think it's because that's what works. Right? I feel that time and time again I've run the traditional model, which is two-day or kind of four half-day classes. I've run those traditional classes and I feel like people learned a lot of stuff during those classes, right? They absorbed a lot of stuff. Perhaps it planted some seeds that will eventually someday grow into something. But if anybody's tried to grow seeds into plants, you can't just plant the seed, one seed, and hope for the best, right? You kind of have to nurture it and take care of it over a longer period of time until it's ready to stand on its own, right? You might even have that you have to put that stick in to make sure the plant doesn't fall over until its stem's big enough. All of those things are what immersive learning provides. It provides that extra support, perhaps provides that longer-term continuous engagement that hopefully also results in more collaboration and communication between the people that were involved. Anyway, so it continues beyond that immersive experience.

So quite often, if you just do a two-day class, how often do you speak to the people that you were in that two-day class for after you've been in that two-day class, right? I bet most people never hear from them again, never speak to them again, never even think of them again, right? But if you went through an immersive experience, and the immersive experiences for different classes vary, right? From six weeks all the way up till, uh, ten weeks, right? Perhaps some of them are going to be longer. But if you've had to collaborate over that period of time, go and do assignments and kind of what's the expression? Barrier? I don't know how to describe it. That thing where you're talking to a group of people when you're debriefing the assignments that you've had and you're talking about the real experiences that you've just had, trying to do that. You're sharing part of yourself with this group of people, and that should build over these weeks a level of camaraderie with the rest of your cohorts, right? That group of people who've been through that experience.

And that it should enable a much greater likelihood of continuous collaboration. But also, there's a much greater likelihood that you've actually learned something because you're able to—we're basically implementing double-loop learning, right? Where you're able to go and try and do the thing that you've learned in the class and then come back around and say, "Was this what I was meant to do?" Right? What is the result of the thing that I tried to do? Could I have done this differently and got a different result? And then you're able to then try it again. So each of the different learner, each week's learning content has that loop feedback loop, empirical process, right? Bringing it into the learning world, empirical process to bring that knowledge back so you can then do something a little bit different. 

And I think it also lends itself much more readily to even outside of the context of the fixed courseware, right? So there's going to be an assignment at the end of each session. You go off and do that, and when we do a debrief, when we come back, the outcome of that debrief might be that you want to try something different. There's absolutely no reason that the trainer wouldn't want to have a debrief of that you're trying again, as well as, you know, during the class, we're doing that debrief of the next exercise. But you want to still talk about some of the things that you've tried differently, tried again in the previous exercise, and all of our trainers would be absolutely happy to get on a call and talk about that as well. Perhaps the whole group's interested, right? That's something that we can figure out how we incorporate into that process.

So that idea of how do we learn, how do humans learn with interactive continuous feedback loops of those learning outcomes? That's what we're trying to bring into this immersive learning experience. And I think, again, it's going to be a game changer for training and learning because it's not just a fire and forget, right? You're not just getting that content shoved into your brain and then it atrophying over time. You've actually got that continuous loop back so you can always ask that question, right? That niggle that you have six weeks later about something that you talked about six weeks ago. Fine, ask the question, right? We're all right here. We can see what we think. And I think that's that important part, that feedback loop, that empirical process in the learning environment.

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else, Agile, Scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.