So the question is, what is the single most valuable outcome that a consulting engagement can produce? Man, I'm struggling because can it be one thing, right? Is it? Let's apply some lean principle. If we can't get to a thing, we need to go up one level. So perhaps systemic change. Some sort of actual change in either the behaviours because you've changed the system, right? I mean, that's ultimately what we're trying to do. We're trying to change the system within which the organisation is functioning in order to get some business benefit, right? Whether that's a business benefit of the engineering teams being able to work faster or it's a business benefit that the company is able to respond to the market more quickly, whatever that business benefit is, that's the outcome that you're trying to achieve. And you're only going to get that by actually changing the system. Quite often, that's really difficult in organisations because lots of people say they want to change but then don't actually want to do the things that they need to do in order to change. We kind of quite often feel comfortable with the way things are, right? And that can be, um, it can be really difficult to get people on board. But when you do have people on board and they're willing to try new things and experiment, knowing that not every idea is going to work out, right? Then I think the single most valuable outcome for a consulting engagement is some kind of systemic change to the system that enables something, some desire that the business is looking for. Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else, agile, scrum, or devops, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.