Too much of anything can be a bad thing, and that leads us to one of our seven agile virtues, which is temperance. You need to take everything in measure, right? Make sure that you don't do too much of something that could manifest in our world as having too much backlog. What does it mean to have a lean inventory in your backlog? What does it mean to not put things in there, to think a little bit more carefully about whether something should be in your backlog or not? What does it mean to have just enough and no more? That's a common phrase that we use a lot, especially in the Scrum space. I remember I have this picture in my head of Ken saying it to me many years ago: just enough and no more. I believe, in fact, he actually said that no matter what quantity question I ask him, the answer is going to be just enough and no more. It doesn't matter what the quantity question is, right? 

So how much backlog should we have? Just enough and no more. How many developers should we have? Just enough and no more. How much time should we spend on refinement? Just enough and no more. Same for planning up front. That mantra of being focused on what it is we're doing and minimising our effort. One of the principles in the Agile Manifesto is maximising the amount of work not done, right? And that's that idea of temperance: maximise the amount of work not done, minimise your effort for the maximum gain, and always look to take the easy path where you can, but be willing to take the hard path when you can't. 

If you are having difficulty getting the most out of the seven virtues of agility, then my team at Naked Agility can help you, or find a consultant, coach, or trainer who can. It's essential for you to find help as soon as you can and not wait. Use the links below to get in touch because you don't just need agility; you need Naked Agility.