How does my consulting experience manifest in the training environment? I think it manifests itself all over the place, to be honest. When I'm consulting, when I'm training, so much so that I definitely quite often struggle to cover all of the content that we want to talk about because for most people, they're coming to training looking for answers. Right? It might not be the answers that the training was designed to give them, right? 

Um, that's also often the case. But if we do have time and we do have inclination, and even sometimes if we don't, it's worth having a conversation about particular instances, particular ideas, and particular solutions. One of the things that I feel that I bring to a training class, um, that folks that aren't actually consulting, haven't actually been consultants, kind of aren't able to leverage, is those situational experiences that I've had in organisations with teams, with leadership groups, where we're trying to figure out how to solve a problem. 

And they're doing some crazy thing. I think my favourite thing that I talk about a lot is I've always got a worse story than whatever the students bring, right? I can, for, I don't think I've ever encountered a circumstance where a student has brought up some crazy, nefarious, ridiculous thing that their organisation does to inhibit their ability to add deliver value that I can't pull out an example of a worse one, right? Of a team or an organisation that is just worse, right? 

And almost in every circumstance, from technical things that are worse, from cultural things that are worse, to actual implementation things in the way they do business that inhibits the ability for teams and organisations to actually get value. And you'd think that would be something they would want, right? 

Um, and I think that's the piece that differentiates, um, nicodilities training from other training classes. And it's something that I look for in all of the trainers that I work with, um, is that they have to have actually done the things that they're talking about. I don't think there's any value in having a trainer that is just a trainer, right? That's, that's so, that's somebody parroting the content or parroting the ideas that somebody else has written. They actually have to have understood them and lived them so that they can not only tell you here's what this thing is supposed to be, but also say, but I understand that you're over here, and here's how I have seen organisations either split that difference, do something differently that gets them as good there as they can, or perhaps even an organisation that has thrown out their existing system in order to move to that new system and what that meant for the business and the types of conversations that had to be had so that the students feel like it's possible. 

Right? That's the bit that quite often there's a huge difference between the agile and scrum and lean and kanban that we talk about in training and where companies actually are. And people find it very difficult to understand how do they close that gap. Um, and that's what a trainer with real experience as an agile or devops consultant brings to the story. 

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else agile, scrum, or devops, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.