So, um, starting from the perspective of the company that is sending their employees for a course, an immersive class brings not only learning but also coaching and support in applying the knowledge. So, from the company point of view, they will not just have prepared for certification experts or people with just theoretical knowledge. We will help their people to really apply a lot of the things that we cover during the course. 

So, I would say that from a value point of view, this is a great offering for the company because we promise we will do our best to help your people apply and make positive changes in your organisation thanks to this class. What is even more interesting is that every single module will bring the opportunity to deliver value. So, it's, for instance, seven times when the potential value will be delivered for the organisation, and this is just the beginning, right? It's a longer journey.

And so, about the second situation, the second perspective: we have someone that wants to become a better expert. This class can actually help you nail your job interview because, again, you will no longer be left with theory, with some fancy tools, concepts, and ideas. You will have practical how-to knowledge that you will bring to the interview. You will be ready to answer challenging questions, and what I believe is, at the end of the day, the most important thing: you will start your job from the very first day with already great knowledge in your head, great tools in your hands, and you know how to do that. How cool is that for this new company, having such a new employee?