Question is why do I think that four half days is a better format than two full days. 

I think it's a better format because of two things. One is that it allows people to spend a little bit of time absorbing the content of maybe reading up on some questions and additional ideas that they thought of during the class. So over four half days, even if they're consecutive, people are able to rearrange their filing cabinets. I remember somebody telling me that our brains are like filing cabinets. It's just a metaphor, right? But brings all that filing cabinets and during the day we're pulling stuff out and looking at it and leaving it lying around. And then at night when we're sleeping, our brain goes and refiles everything, processing all of the events of the day. That can solidify knowledge, generate more questions. Right? So that's why I really like that four half day format. 

But in fact, the four half day format is sub-optimal as well. We're doing everything within one week. So we're trying to move towards other formats that might be more valuable. So we're already starting to introduce, especially for private customers, classes of maybe over two weeks, four half days over two weeks. Right? So do Tuesday, Wednesday, Tuesday, Wednesday or longer immersive classes over a much longer period of time. So maybe eight half days over eight weeks. And that gives much more capability for the people that are participating in the class to go and try stuff with their team, try stuff in their organisation, and then come back around. 

In fact, in the eight half day format specifically for the PSPO, the product owner class initially, we're going to be giving them assignments at the end of each session. So part of the next session will be a debrief of the previous assignment. That might be quite a lot of the time in that session. Right? Here was an assignment you had to go into your organisation, try to do something different, try to work with the teams in a different way. What was the outcome of that? What's your feedback? And what's going to be your next iteration on that story? 

So it's effectively the same as the traditional product owner class, but we have the extra time to do the assignments and do the review of the assignments, the debriefs, and hopefully create something that allows more loops of learning. Right? People are able to actually try things with their teams, close that feedback loop with the trainer, and perhaps learn even more than we would in a normal class.