So the question is how does a Scrum team decide on a Sprint goal? If you were to look in the Sprint guide, it says it just happens, but we all know that's not going to be true, right? It doesn't just magically pop into people's ideas. Some people would attest that the developers and the product owner work together during the Sprint to come up with a Sprint goal, and I would say that's partially true. I feel like if you walk into your Sprint planning and you don't already know or don't already have an idea about what your Sprint goal is going to be, you're already at a disadvantage.

I would normally discuss what a probable Sprint goal for the next Sprint would be at my Sprint review with my stakeholders. I'd probably be talking about what it is we should be working on next, what does that look like, how does that fit into the strategy? So when I do walk into Sprint planning and we already have an idea which direction we're going, and then perhaps we're writing the Sprint goal, right? We have an idea about what it should be, and now we've got to get it down on paper. We've got to quantify it, and then we've got to select the items that go towards it.

I can definitely see circumstances where you walk into Sprint planning and you don't know up front what it's going to be. Perhaps stakeholders just dropped a bombshell on you at the Sprint review. Perhaps the market just dropped a bombshell on you at the Sprint review or after. Perhaps you just don't know yet, right? It's just too up in the air, and you didn't know enough, and it's going to be a really long Sprint planning because we've got to figure it out.

But how does the team decide on a Sprint goal? They collaborate between the product owner and the developers with significant input from the stakeholders, with significant input from the market and the business context. 

Thanks for watching the video! If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else Agile, Scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.