Hello, hello, good morning, Luca. Oh, good afternoon. Actually, it's afternoon for me. The afternoon for Luka. Yeah, it's also afternoon. And there's Mona. Hello, Mona, the serial test taker. Oh, dear, I just signed up to the new course, and I'm doing that on the 31st. Why the product break? Don't ask why. And this weekend, I'm doing another course, and next weekend, I'm doing another. See? Don't. And I'm actually to get a really good deal just before Christmas. So the three days before Christmas, even the weekend, I'm doing a three-day coaching course because it was half price because no one else wants to do that over Christmas, do they? Apart from me, some, unless the rest of the globe that don't celebrate Christmas. Sometimes the way to do it.

And Luka, it's been a while. Uh, yeah, I haven't done any courses in the meantime, but I've started applying EBM on quite a regular basis. Yeah, I have some strategic planning in the next few weeks. And I've already started one, but it's an iterative planning. So we're going to be, we started last month, and I hope we'll finish it by the end of this one. 

ABM is the great direction. High five, my new friend. Yeah, I like it very much, especially after Martin taught us how to use the metrics. Ah, when the expert supports you, now more and more things are getting better, right? 

Yeah, I think that hard, the hardest part is picking, is choosing metrics, right? Because although EBM has a bunch of example metrics, they might not be quite right for your org. And trying to figure out how to get people to do it as well, it's super hard. I've been using the Liberators' Scrum team survey, okay? And getting people to fill it out is an absolute nightmare. Really, absolute nightmare. I've got, I've been doing a PSMO at the moment, and it's an immersive PSMO, and they have four teams. And all it's the product owners and Scrum Masters that are in the training. And I said, how about I just give you three months of this Liberator Scrum team survey? And we're two weeks into them sending out the URLs to fill it out, and there's three people on between the four teams that filled it out. 

It's how they present it internally, and I can't see that part, right? If it's, here's the survey, people, I don't give a [__]. Right? If it's, here's something that can help us identify how we can help you, then it might get more push. But I mean, usually when I'm giving out a survey of any sort, I tell the people who I expect to fill it out that this survey serves what we want to achieve in this, this, and this way. And then usually they're collaborative. But next week, I'm starting with a series of discovery interviews for this strategic planning, which they think is going to be a strategic planning. I know it's not going to be a strategic planning, just possibly some alignment sessions or whatever. 

So they did strategic planning last year. It's a small media company. They publish a website, and it's 15 of them or something like that, 15 or 16. So they did the strategic planning last year, and the guy who facilitated the planning, he gave them a survey of 30 pages long, and they filled it out. So we had this sync call, and they're like, okay, Strate, you don't plan on any surveys. And I'm like, if you don't want to do surveys, totally fine by me. It's 15 of you. I can do 15 discovery interviews. In the end, they're going to pay for it. So yeah, totally fine by me. But I didn't get why they are so against surveys. And then they sent me the last year's materials, and I was like, my eyes were bleeding. And then I called and I said, okay, no surveys for you till at least 2025. You did your, you paid your dues. 

Yeah, service, service. Yeah, it's a great topic, by the way, for another maybe talk and webcast. I also have my own, I believe, some interesting stories. What about we start with today's topic, shall we? Okay, so I'm going to share my screen. Where am I here? So today, I'm welcoming you on behalf of Martin Hinwood and myself, and we are going to talk a little bit about agile leadership and agile transformation. 

So during our webcast, there is a possibility to write questions. You have the options to, I believe the chat should be working, so you can use chat. You can use the option with Q&A. So the plan is as follows: whenever you have any question, feel free to ask, feel free to write it. And after my short talk, like around 15 minutes or so, I'm happy to, together with Martin, of course, to answer those questions, to have deeper conversations. 

I hope that my presentation will trigger some of your questions. So can you see my screen? Yes? No? Yes? You stuck to me? Yes? Wonderful. So let's do it. And our today's story starts with my window. Why my window is important? Because as you can see on the left-hand side of the slide, we have some things happening, which is pretty close to the flat, to the apartment where I live. Some construction work is happening, and when I was looking through that window, I realised that there are different people there with different helmets, and those helmets will play an important role in our today's journey. 

So the majority of the people have yellow helmets. Some of them have blue, greens. But the people that we will focus on today are the owners of white helmets. Why they are important? Well, because those helmets bring some important message about this process. So the owners of white helmets are different kinds, different levels of managers. People who inspect, direct the process. And how does this process look like? Well, white helmet owners, they take this process very strong in their hands. They pay attention to the process every single day. There are some meetings. In Polish, we call them "oprava," which means briefing, check-in. They talk to the team. They tell them what to do. The team is focusing on doing everyday great job towards building the next floor, towards building the next parts. They are just following the rules. There are people who own the rules, and in fact, for that special group, certain mechanisms work. 

So for instance, if we will be really focused and we will be lucky, not many people will be sick. Most likely, we will be able to finish this current floor quickly, and we may get an incentive. So long story short, the more bricks, the quicker we build, the more money potentially is there on the table. So those are the tools that those white helmet owners can use. And based on some conversations that I had in the past, they might be very, very useful in that context. But this is just my window, right? What is happening in the world when you look at different places? Well, a lot of things are happening. 

So on one hand, we have a lot of automation, robotics happening. So by the way, this is the picture, left and top one, from the work that was, actually, I was involved in. So this is a robotic company from Poland that is helping automate tedious, repetitive work in warehouses. A lot of industries are already automated to such an extent that actually a lot of manual work was replaced. We have code, we have applications, we have software products that helped improve people's lives, and they made a lot of work that is repetitive, that resembles itself. We see some patterns that work started to be replaced by machines, by automation, but different tools, not to mention the AI thing that is happening. A lot of fantastic, powerful tools. 

What does it mean for us? Well, what is left for humans? E.R. brings an important topic to our table. So this work is a bit different. We need people to be very creative, to take the best what humankind brought to this world. So the ability to create innovative solutions, the ability to think out of the box, the ability to connect certain dots that maybe they haven't been connected so far. So what does it mean to the companies? Well, it seems like although a lot of interesting challenges are coming for different experts, different specialists, employees are getting frustrated. 

So here you have a bunch of data taken from different surveys from Gallup Institute. And what we can see here? Well, oh well, only 22% of employees truly trust in the leadership of their organisation. 13% of people claim that their direct supervisor or, in general, management leadership, those people are the reasons why they are leaving the job. If you dig into the details, there are more reasons that are directly or indirectly influenced by managers, by the leaders. So we also have a huge impact on employees' engagement. We also know, unfortunately, that many, many of the companies fail. They fail to stay in the market. They fail on their journey to succeed. And it seems like we have people who can change those numbers because, well, my personal feeling is those numbers are a bit scary. 

So why we are meeting today and why we believe this topic is important for many of us? Because guess what? We are not robots. And I can tell you as a person who holds a PhD in robotics, yes, we are not the robots. We are not the robots, and our work is now getting more and more sophisticated. We can offer a lot to the companies, and we need people, people, right people to help us flourish, to help take the best out of us, out of experts, to create fantastic companies, to build amazing products. Fun fact, yesterday, one of the biggest, if not the biggest, ad conferences in Poland ended. I had the pleasure to participate in that conference. I had my own workshop. 

And you know what is one of the most important findings? Some people were missing in that conference. We have plenty of Scrum Masters, agile coaches, some product owners, product managers, but the people that we should start focusing on and have a great collaboration with them, they were missing. So we are speaking about manager leaders, directors, and so on. So with that, we would love to advertise like there are people most likely around you in your organisation that can influence the organisation, can help create the right environment. And the numbers that we just went through, they are telling us directly there is a huge opportunity for improvements there. 

So it seems like a lot of things changed, and although some of the people still wear white helmets, a lot of managers should forget about the helmet and replace it with true agile leadership. What does it mean for the company, for the people? Well, the tools, techniques that our white helmet holders use, we should change them. We should adapt. We are going to help people go through a challenging journey. We are going to show them direction. We are going to lead by example and help them make more decisions, use this fantastic parts that they bring into the company. If you don't believe me, fantastic, don't do that. Let's take a look at data. Let's take a look at experts. 

So pretty already, I would say pretty old book by Daniel Pink, "Drive: The Surprising Truth What Truly Motivates Us," gives us very short three answers to that question. And this is a fantastic book. If you haven't had a chance to read, I strongly recommend because it's not based on what the author thinks, it's based on the research. So we have our answer: autonomy, mastery, and purpose. This is what truly motivates us. If the companies want to benefit from hiring amazing talents, if they want to retain those great talents, they need to go back to basics and understand how to create this environment. 

So what do our teams need? Well, we have here an idea. So if we compare autonomy, mastery, and purpose from Daniel Pink, we have clear boundaries that will help us in self-management, support to grow because we want to become a learning organisation. And it's not just a buzzword. It's about the right conditions for creating hypotheses, for conducting experiments, and for recognising that a lot of those experiments will end up with this is not the right direction for us. We need to remember that learning is a journey on a very bumpy road. This is the truly learning organisation, not just waiting for always amazing results. How are we supposed to create amazing results in a very complex environment? We need a purpose. 

So this is an extremely important motivational aspect. What do the leaders, managers can or should do? They should provide direction so they can help to create company mission, vision, make sure that the teams understand their goals and their goals are consistent with the company's mission and vision. So if you ask someone who is just, you know, cleaning the floor in, let's say, a robotic company, why your work is meaningful? Why is it important? You want to hear, I'm enabling a lot of companies, for instance, logistic companies, to automate tedious, repetitive work, right? So understanding that my job matters and I'm doing important stuff for others, not only for myself, but also seeing the value that we are bringing, seeing this customer and what we are actually doing to change their lives, this is also very, very important and can build amazing motivation. 

So a quick test for you, or maybe a quick question: who's your favourite barista? Do you prefer a smiling, committed person, willing to chat, willing to support, or rather a grumpy head trying to discourage you from ordering? I guess that you would love to rather avoid a cat and have a nice, kind, supportive person. You will be most likely going back to the company where you believe people care about you, about your problems, about delivering solutions for you. And this is a powerful difference that can make a really competitive, huge change in your company. Show the people, help them understand that their work is important, is meaningful, and help them be a part of what is happening. That commitment and the great motivation can bring the huge difference. 

So what is one of the best things? What I see, and actually it happened to me recently, I was in the pub, everyone was drinking a beer, and I had a stomach ache, and I really, really needed mint tea. So I asked the waiter, could you please make a mint tea for me? He does not have any proper tools and ingredients prepared for that, but instead of telling me, "Qu, qu, qu, qu, qu," it's a pub, "Qu, qu, qu, we don't have mint tea," he decided to tell me, "I will figure it out, and I will find a way." And in five minutes, he's coming back, and instead of using mint leaves for mojito, he created a really nice tea for me. And this is the example of ego behaviour. So instead of blindly following rules that are actually protecting you from making the best possible decisions, you interpret the rules, you think about what you actually can do, and you find the solution. And I would go back to that pub because I love such people. 

Last but not least, an important point: why we need agile leaders? Because even if we speak about agile transformation, it seems like in some of the environments, people are even tired of listening to agile transformation. Let's transform. Think about it even differently. Forget about the wording. What we want to do, we want to deliver valuable products. We want to create happy teams, committed teams that will make customers happy with our product. If we just stick to, "Here is Scrum Master, here is Product Owner, here's your team, do your job," this is another team, do your job, that will be fine. Most likely, we will land in so-called local optimum. We need to work together, and this includes great collaboration with leaders, with managers, to find global optimum so that we can maximise the value of the whole company working together. 

The challenging part, because I don't want to make a wrong impression that it's simple, yes, let's do it. It's very difficult to sing the right song. So let it go and forget about the white helmet. However, we believe it is possible, and we are happy to help you find your way, help you when it comes to collaborating with your leaders and managers. So with that, I'm happy to start questions, Q&A session, and maybe I will stop sharing, and I will see you better right now. Yes? 

It's amazing. So do we have any questions? Challenge ourselves, Luca. What's your experience of trying to talk to leadership about agility? 

Uh, first, Yanna, and I hope that I'm going to pronounce it correctly. Thank you for the presentation. I spent some lovely time in Poland, yeah, eating pierogi mostly. Uh, yeah, what you asked me is what I wanted to ask. How do you get into their heads? Because the best slide was the "Let It Go" and the white helmet because they, what's my experience is they would like both. They'd like agility and to remain in control. 

Uh, so, uh, just earlier today, I had this conversation, and I tried to convey the message that what we want to build in this transformation is a support structure. And you had something like that also in your presentation. So that was like I felt validated a lot. I was like, you know, when you grow tomatoes, and then you can put a net or a stick that they use to grow, and I was like, so that's what we are trying to do. And the manager is like, but yeah, then we can't steer the process. And I'm like, well, do you want to steer the process for the rest of your life, or do you want to build something that's sustainable and that can let you go and have at least two weeks of vacation every year? 

Yes, that's a very valid point. So I used to work very closely to some of the C-level groups because the companies were willing to help me see the world through their eyes. So I can tell you that what helps me is that rephrasing what you said. So instead of thinking like they want control, there is some underlying reason. And what I've learned is trust issues. No coincidence in the Scrum guide, we are saying directly about trust. So this is something that is very typical. There are also sometimes old habits or lack of proper training tools. 

So I recall a company where the majority of experts were trained using great trainings, having mentors, and so on. And when I realised that all top management and middle leaders, middle-level leaders, they have never attended any course on leadership, some of the things became clear. So they haven't had a chance to see things through different perspectives. So what really works for me is to gain trust in the collaboration and asking them, what are your worries when you wake up in the morning before you start work? What are the first questions that you set? Right? And for instance, they care about startup issues. We have sponsors, and they are asking questions. They demand results, and we need to show something, otherwise we will lose money. 

So having this conversation with them was very helpful when we started to talk about their problems directly. And in fact, we introduced in that company, well, to a pretty high level, radical candor. So they've learned to talk to the teams like, "Hey, this is the situation. If we are too pushy, we are sorry, but this is the problem that we are currently handling." So when the CEO, for instance, organised, and I helped to facilitate lean coffee with employees from different parts of the company, that helped him a lot to have this openness, trust, and they together were working on solutions. 

So when you have committed people, you're typically hiring smart people, right? And they understand why you are worried. It opens a door to a completely different level of conversations. 

Yeah, right. You have to be aware that especially when it comes to top management, they are worried about money, and not because they are dragons that want to have, give me more gold, right? But because they care that this money is needed to run the company. They want to pay salaries to their employees. 

Yeah, yeah, that's true. Also, another problem I encountered was the shop floor wants the changes, and the C-level wants the changes, but then there's middle management. Ah, I see. And see, that's also, and then it's basically, I always tell them, okay, you're thinking of agility, that's great. You want to go to a transformation, that's great. It takes a lot of time, and it takes a lot of money. So if you're not sure, don't do it because it's better not to do it than to do it halfway and then resent it for a long time. 

And that's where they, but I'm trying to, I like this example of yours with the lean coffee because I'm now coming to the conclusion that I have to find some strategies to open the discussion and to give them some space and time in which they can get the support structure so that they could get to the conclusion on their own. 

Yeah, thank you. Thank you for sharing. So I heard somebody recently refer to that middle management as the permafrost, right? That kind of solid layer you're trying to get to the good earth underneath, and you're stuck chipping away at the permafrost trying to get the message through. 

Yeah, it's very difficult. Yeah, so by the way, that is one of the reasons why the PAL-E course, which by the way we have in our offering, is advertised for middle managers. We have seen as a whole community that top management, at least from time to time, they are attending some, they are talking to each other, and they got inspired by ideas, right? So it might be that even the need for change might be even coming from them. The teams, when they hear them, wow, but middle managers got lost, especially when they are not trained. They feel like we are useless, right? Sometimes I'm the person, you know, telling that directly that I felt useless once, right? Because this is what we see. They feel uncomfortable, and we help them find the way because they are needed. Top management cannot do everything, and people still need great supportive leaders. It's the art to understand how to do it properly. 

I think they quite often feel sidelined. Yeah, there's all these things going on, and the people on the ground seem to understand it, and the people up here seem to understand. They're asking for the same things, and I'm in the middle going, I don't know what this [__] is, right? And that can be really difficult because nobody's taken the time to explain it to them. Nobody's taken the time to sit with them and say, this is why your job's not going away. This is the transition that you want to make in order to enable. 

It's going to be, I think it's actually a really interesting time because there's not just the agile story now that's putting middle management in danger, right? Because you might need 20 managers, but do you need 20 leaders? Right? That's right. And now AI is coming along and taking away a lot of the rote work from behind the scenes and going, well, each individual person can now be 60% more productive because they don't have to do all of this manual stuff anymore. 

And it's, they're worried about their job security. They're worried about their ability to do stuff. I had an activity yesterday that I had a list of letters and countries associated with letters, but in my business, we use letters for different grades of costs plus currency and plus country code, not country name. So I just fed that data into ChatGPT and said, can you switch this to country code? Awesome. Can you apply these currency rules to it? Awesome. Can you? And literally, in 20 minutes, I was able to have all of the data massaged into the format I need with all of the information I needed looked up and associated with it. And that was like a good four-hour task if I had to do it manually. 

So those are the types of things. I don't know if you've noticed, but lots of middle managers are sitting with their spreadsheets and filling out their spreadsheets and editing their spreadsheets and updating their spreadsheets and joining this spreadsheet with this other spreadsheet so they get this data out. And that stuff is all gone. Not yet. It's, what would you call it? It's dead work walking, right? It's dead. Just not everybody's caught on to how dead it is, and it's going to be a really interesting time for organisations because what do they get all these folks to do that are in those positions going to be? 

It's going to be an interesting time. There is a space to do different things, right? But again, learning organisations, organisation is learning, and individuals are learning, right? Teams are learning. Microsoft, when Microsoft made a lot of changes in that middle management space, they enabled people who had been managers for a while. You know that expression that people are promoted to their level of incompetence? It's not even a pretend thing. It's actually what happens because people are seen as doing a good job, so they get promoted, and they keep getting promoted until they're seen as not doing a good job anymore, and then that's where they stay. 

So they should be one level below, right? Or two levels below because that's where they're actually continuing to add value. And Microsoft offers anybody who's in a position to go do the work of the position below for the same pay as the position they were promoted into in order to allow people to excel at something. 

While they've been given that pay rise, and then you can't just take it away because that's bad. And lots of people, when they moved to agile engineering teams, lots of people in leadership positions moved back down to being engineers, working on teams, helping with the architecture, doing much more technical things. But they'd been previously promoted to much higher levels of leadership position. And I think it's important to have a story around that as an organisation. You need to have that conversation because it's not going to be a good idea globally just to get rid of all the people you don't need, right? All of these people being dumped onto the market, and we're going to have other problems out of that. 

Yeah, yeah, indeed. And please remember, this is another rule that I share with managers and leaders: how you treat your ex-employees or employees that you are going to say goodbye to, this is actually very important feedback to your current employees. What kind of thoughts will you trigger if you're just, okay, we have a problem, let's just fire people, right? Maybe there is a place for certain movements, and I've also been in that situation with one of the managers. After a work of our collaboration, I talked to him, and he said, like, it's an amazing opportunity, but I'm not ready. And the company did a great decision. They allowed that transition smoothly back. Now he's a fantastic senior engineer in the team, and he's happy. The team is happy. The company is happy because they did not lose a talented person. 

So Mona, I've seen your message in the chat. However, I'm curious, would you like to comment? Is there a question regarding that? I guess it's kind of like how do you take them on the journey? You know, I guess I've come from an environment where everything is about money. You know, every dollar counts, and you've got to report against every dollar. And then come in somewhere where it's a completely different, and it's like, you know, some places have done like no product development for years, and it's okay, and we've lost money, and it's okay. 

And there's just not that emphasis and drive, and there's just no alignment. Like as soon as the word agile comes in, obviously, they've just gone, don't need anything. And like they're even questioning, like, why I'm here? Just like, really? So yeah, it's a bit difficult. So it's kind of trying to take them through the journey and going, you know, these are the fundamentals, these are the basics, and this is the only way you're going to kind of survive and thrive and grow. 

I wanted to add something. I would suggest that you never mention the words agile or scrum or any of those things at all in your conversations ever. While we understand the theory, it's like I might talk about empiricism, right? Because that's a fundamental. But the tools on top of that are largely irrelevant for these folks, and they don't understand what they are. It's easy to explain empiricism, right? It's easy to explain. But as soon as you mention any word from scrum, you've now got a four-hour conversation to explain scrum. 

So try and avoid that terminology, even loaded terms. I try to avoid like product owner. I say product management, right? Don't say scrum master. I say lead or, you know, depending on how your organisational structure. The one of the customers I'm in right now, you're either a lead or you're a product manager or you're a team member. That's it. Squads, and it's squads, not teams, right? 

Yeah, same here. So use their lexicon that comes from Spotify. Spotify's fault, right? Use their lexicon, but introduce the fundamental theories, right? Because then they'll build their own stories on top of it, and maybe scrum will fit, or maybe something for Magu will fit, maybe this, but that's a story for another day. So I talk about empiricism, right? If asked, right? Empiricism, I ask this all the time. How are you measuring that? 

Yeah, I do it all the time. And also, questions: how are you measuring that? What are you going to do with that data? When they say they're going to measure something, oh, we want to add this field to this thing. What are you going to do with that data? What decisions are you going to make differently with the data? Who's going to look at it? And I've been in conversations where they want to add this metric to the system that's going to impact on everybody using the system that they have to fill it out, and they've got no answer to the question of how they're going to use the data and what they're going to do differently based on the results of that data. 

They're not thinking empirically, right? Empiricism is fundamentally scientific. They're not thinking about why. Ask those questions. That's why you're there, right? That's why you're in that position. And we shouldn't have to be there, right? There should be no such thing as an agile coach. I think I wrote a blog post ages ago that agile coaches show a systemic lack of leadership in your organisation. You shouldn't need agile coaches. Leaders should just be the agile coaches. That's who it should be. 

So I always try and think about not being a crutch and being an enabler. Yeah, and have you guys faced scenarios? Again, I think because it's very new, and obviously some people have had some training around product lead, and it's now like any decision is down to product, and everyone else has kind of stepped back. And I'm like, no, no, no, you're just creating more silos now. You still have to collaborate and talk and make decisions. Just because it's product lead doesn't mean they make all the decisions. 

Yeah, and I think, again, this is a language thing that's kind of stuck without understanding what it actually means. So how would you try and take that? I tell people nobody cares about their goals. The only way you get people to care about your goals is you make it their goals too. And that doesn't mean just telling them they have to buy it. They have to buy into it. They have to feel like it's their goal. They have to own it. They have to care about this outcome. If they don't care, they don't give a [__] about your goals. You know, you're not going to get anywhere. 

And that's super hard. That's effectively marketing and sales skills, right? For those people to sell their goals, their direction, their strategy to other people. It's not good enough to be a boss anymore. It just doesn't work. Sorry, I stepped on that one, Joan. You probably— 

No, no problem at all. And actually, Mona, I believe, based on what you said, that you have a very powerful tool option available because if your company cares about money, so Martin emphasised, like, why do you need? What are you going to do? You may do something complementary, calculate the cost of doing that, and ask how much value do you believe you will get out of it. This is the strategy that helped me prevent some of the changes in people/finance processes because they were claiming it's only 15 minutes a week for every single specialist. 

So I just opened the Excel sheet years ago. Maybe today I will ask ChatGPT for support, but I did the math, and I told them, okay, this only 15 minutes will cost you this and this amount of money, roughly. What kind of value do you expect? And what was the fun fact? I became a product owner of a small internal product because I offered them that we can automate that. This is my forecast. I have a clear goal. I need the support of one or two engineers. In two weeks, you will have a solution automatically, no longer asking people. And all of a sudden, when we started talking money, it was a conversation with C-level leadership. 

It wasn't easy, but they agreed that actually I care about the company's money, and that's good. Right? I also think that having the conversation about risks and risk mitigation is something that is really powerful when talking to management. And scrum in itself tackles risk by doing this incrementally, right? Incrementally, we do something. What is it? Build, measure, value? Can't remember now. 

But thank you. Thank you. Yeah, so I actually had this conversation with one of the leaders on why we're doing this and trying to, I've been saying this to me for months now to the same. We have to start doing. We can't plan ourselves out of this pickle we're in right now. We have to start doing stuff because, and that's empiricism, right? We have to start doing and start learning. But there's also risk mitigation there that we actually know what we're talking about. We get that data about forecasting out products, how when we will be done with the products, when will this and that be done. 

So that's, and that conversation, you can take the risk conversation all the way from team right up to the CEO, right? Everyone knows about risk. They have different risk lenses on, but you can have that risk discussion with the CFO, right? We're having a risk of losing this much money. Then the CFO will listen to you. 

So that's something that you can carry all along up the organisation, if you ask me. Yeah, and that's the one person I've managed to bring on board. Ah, there, that's a good start. 

So, yeah, stop the win so far. Yeah, so do you, can you, do you have any tips on, okay, when you have to talk to management? Risk is one thing, right? Are there any other areas that we can kind of lean into to make them care, as Martin said, to make them care about this? 

What helps me is also showing them that we are making a lot of assumptions and there are a lot of ambiguities, and this is the part of complexity, right? So how will you get the answer in the complex world? You have to try. How to try? Formulate a hypothesis, run an experiment. So that was also something that I love including, right? Risks is one powerful tool. Think about what are the assumptions. And I believe we take, you might even try to have this conversation with your beloved ones. Try to understand how often we are making assumptions based on our beliefs. 

How do you know, Yana, that someone would love to read that blog post? Because it's interesting. Do you have data? Do you believe that there are no already great blog posts about that? Okay, right? You see, we are making a lot of assumptions, and we have a lot of beliefs in our backpacks. It's good to make it clear what kind of assumptions are we taking. 

I like that. Okay, any more questions, thoughts, complaints? I'm Polish; we love complaining. I can take all of your complaints if you need to complain. 

Luca's coming in on camera. He must have a complaint. Yes, give me complaints, please. No, the only complaint that I can give to you since you're Polish is Zova and P. I see. And why ZKA? Many people like JKA. It tricked me, or I was tricked into drinking too much of it. 

I see, I see. You know, good things are addictive. Yes, yes, I can imagine. Never more, basically. But yeah, thank you. This was really great and inspiring. And as I told you already, it helped me in a sense that it validated some conclusions or hypotheses that I came to earlier on my own. So I'm looking forward to applying it and then measuring the success of course. 

And yeah, I like what Martin said about mirroring. It's basically a coaching technique, isn't it? You mirror their wording. You speak on their own terms and not to force our technical terms on them. And I'd say it can be one of the strategies to boost the success of communication with the management. 

Yeah, indeed. I can tell you shortly another story. So there was a group of people that were hating scrum and agile. So what my colleague did instead, if instead of, as Martin proposed, telling, teaching about scrum, she asked the team after two weeks of work, three weeks of work, would you like to hear the feedback? Would you like to understand from the users? Yes, yes. So are we inviting them? And we will show them the product? Yes, yes, let's do that. 

So stakeholders came, they were talking about the product, they gave the feedback, and you know what? That was a proper sprint review without even connecting it with scrum and agile. And they were happy because the stakeholders said, we love that part. Something is strange here. We don't understand that. And the team was amazed. And here you go, sprint review without sprint review. Probably better review than a lot of teams have. 

Exactly. Yeah, absolutely. Proper wording, right? Yeah. Then you can just say, would you like to do that again in a couple of weeks? Yes, let's do it. And they did. They are just meeting with people interested in the product. This is the name. So what was the outcome of these sneaky little sprint reviews that you put in there? 

Sneaky? Yeah, sneaking in the sprint reviews. I mean, was the customer happy? Was the team more happy? Yes. Yeah, because team, you know, whenever you show the team that someone cares about their outcomes, you may potentially increase motivation. The team's motivation increased, and stakeholders were also starting to build trust with the team, right? They are showing something valuable to us. They are asking for the feedback. 

So if you think about great proper sprint review, this is what was happening there without connecting to scrum, without vocabulary, but with exactly the same purpose. Yeah, exactly the same outcomes that should be expected from sprint reviews. 

Yeah, we just rename everything in scrum and just go for it. No, I'm just kidding. You know, that's the tool, right? And the ability to find the common ground is, I believe, oh my God, I will tell that as a PST. This is the most important thing, right? To find a common ground, to focus on valuable goals, to be a committed team willing to work together. This is actually the essence of agility, not fancy names, right? They never were supposed to be fancy. 

Yeah, it's true. Yeah, great group. I love trainings in small groups because everyone has a lot of space for discussions. Well, and it feels safer as well, right? Because there's not a bunch of other people that we don't know. 

Yeah, natural Vegas rule, right? Well, in Polish, what happens in Choin stays in Choin. So, Mona, all of our many of our new classes are using the immersive format, which is the multi-week sessions. So I guess it's not as conducive for I want my I want to pass my certificate as quickly as possible, right? But I think it's much more valuable from the perspective of I want to learn the stuff and figure out how to apply it as well and get help with applying it. 

So I know it would be a longer investment, right? But I think it can be more value at the end of the day. But also, sometimes you just want the certificate. 

Right? We have short classes too. No, I definitely think it'll be useful. And I think through the courses that I've done, it's just like even building a group of people that you can kind of connect with and kind of share thoughts and challenges. It's been really useful just to kind of have drop-in sessions. 

But yeah, but it's just very interesting when you worked somewhere for four or five years and you worked and you've implemented, and it's, you know, and you go somewhere else, and it's completely different, and it's completely different challenges. But at the same time, there are things that are exactly the same, right? 

Yeah, a lot of the problems that pop up are kind of the same. 

Both. Well, I, for one, need to drop. I have an Azure DevOps drop-in clinic for a customer in a few minutes. Although I see people have already started joining, but there you go. People join early. It's because it's set at five minutes past the hour. It's one of those weird ones. The people go, oh, it must be at the time. 

So hopefully you enjoyed the discussion. And if you do know anybody who's interested, there is the agile leadership class, the immersive one, starts in a couple of weeks, 14 days, something like that, two weeks on Friday, two weeks on Friday, I think. And Joanna is going to be the awesome trainer for that one. You won't be stuck with me, so you'll get an upgrade. More hair? Not sure if more experience, definitely not, but different perspectives for sure. 

But I'm going to drop off. Joanna, if you can just close the meeting when you're done. 

Yes, will do. Awesome. Thank you so much. Bye. 

Thank you. Thank you. Bye-bye.