So one of the seven virtues of agility is chastity. In our context, in the agile context, chastity is really about taking your time. Right? Don't jump into thinking that you've been successful doing agile and we're going to take all the things you want to think about, the impact and the effect within your organisation of the changes that you make. 

So there are loads of implications of agile that go far beyond the actual mechanisms for your organisation. So things, for example, like the democratization of the workplace, involving more people in the decision-making is something that you need to take time over. You need to think about how you're going to change your organisation. You need to involve the people in your organisation in that story; otherwise, they're not going to be interested in what it is you're trying to achieve. 

Nobody really cares about your goals; they care about their own goals. And the way you get them to care about your goals is you make their goals your goals. Right? They want to be part of that story. So taking your time and looking at... there are tools out there, like open space agile, that allows you to involve the whole of your organisation in your decision-making process as you move towards a greater degree of agility. 

And that time and thoughtfulness and inclusivity is going to be the thing that enables you to get the most out of your agile strategies. If you are having difficulty getting the most out of the seven virtues of agility, then my team at Naked Agility can help you, or find a consultant, coach, or trainer who can. It's essential for you to find help as soon as you can and not wait. Use the links below to get in touch because you don't just need agility; you need naked agility.