So how easy is it to get started with Caman? To have a pilot, to try something, it's super easy. Pick a team, apply a Caman strategy. It's really that easy. Sometimes it's difficult to convince people. People behave how they're measured, so normally it's the traditional metrics and measures within the organisation that prevent you from doing some of these things. But there are tools out there that can help. Most folks today are probably using either JIRA or Azure DevOps to manage their work, since most of us work from home quite a lot of the time, right? So we don't have the boards on the wall anymore; we don't have the opportunity for that.

Using JIRA and Azure DevOps, get access to some of the data analytics, look at some of the data, look at the Caman data, look at the graphs, and see what's going on in your current system. That's see what's going on, and then get together and run a workshop. Run a workshop on defining your definition of workflow, defining how the way it is you work just now. Start to have those conversations, but don't think, absolutely do not think, you can have a two-hour workshop and then you're done. That two-hour workshop is just a start for starting people thinking about how they work because most people don't really understand how they work. They don't understand how they work because they just do it. They just do it the way they do it. They've never had to write it down; they've never had to discuss it with each other.

You start having very interesting conversations with the team. That arc of conversations kind of needs to play out, right, in order to get to consensus of this is the way we agree how we work. Once you've got that agreement, you're doing Caman. But you can just start with the metrics, right? Sometimes using metrics to kind of drive people's behaviours can be super valuable. So if you started recording the cycle time from when work starts to when it finishes in the system and just start looking at that data, how long does work take on average to go through the system? How long does an individual item take to go through the system?

Then you can look at something like a cycle time scatter plot and look for outliers. This is something that you actually don't need any buy-in from anybody in the team or anybody in the organisation to do. Load the current data from Azure DevOps or JIRA into a tool that lets you visualise the Caman metrics and look at what's going on. Start asking more interesting questions during your meetings and events that you have with the team. When you see those outliers, that piece of work that took, you know, we do two-week sprints, and there's a piece of work that took 430 days to complete, right? Ask that question at the retro: why did this take 430 days? What could we have done differently?

That's asking more and using the data to ask more interesting questions. As you start asking those more interesting questions, hopefully somebody on your team or in your group or a leader will ask, "How do you know? How did you see this? How did you spot these things?" You can start introducing little pieces of Caman, saying, "I'm using this cycle time scatter plot. It's showing that all of these items are above the 95th percentile; these are the outliers. So I'm asking questions about these and why are they like that, and how do they go together?"

Oh, that's really cool! Is there any more data like that? Well, yes, there is. You can start having those conversations. So I think it's very easy to start using Caman in the organisation. All it takes is any individual on the team to start analysing the data and looking and suggesting optimisations for the team, trying to build some credibility so that you can start having discussions about the definition of workflow. You can do it ninja, right? You can say, "Well, how do we pick?" You know, doing the retrospective, "I'm interested in how we all pick the next piece of work we're going to do."

Oh, well, I do this, and I do that, and I do the other thing. Start pulling on those threads. Just start pulling on the threads. So ultimately, how easy is it to create a Caman pilot in your organisation? Super easy. Just do it. It just needs one person to start looking at the data, one person to start asking more interesting questions. If your current system of work is failing you, then you would benefit from creating and applying a Caman strategy. Our professional Caman trainers and consultants are ready to help. Don't wait; the sooner you start, the sooner you'll improve. Get in touch below.
