One of the key components of creating a Kanban strategy is WIP limits. If you don't have WIP limits, it's definitely not a Kanban strategy that you have. So when you visualise your work, when you do that workshop where you figure out what are the columns, the states, the activities that happen for any piece of work that flows through our system, and you create those columns, you're going to have to decide what your WIP limit is in each of those areas. Coming up with a WIP limit is a little bit of an art, right? It's like coming up with what's the Goldilocks zone for this particular activity.

I actually found out that I really fundamentally thought that Goldilocks and the Three Bears was a completely ubiquitous story. But I was working recently with a group in Romania, and they don't have Goldilocks and the Three Bears as a bedtime story. It's not a thing. So kind of what we're talking about, and actually this was the bit that resonated the best for them, was think of what they describe as the Goldilocks zone in planetary physics. I know I'm sounding like a nutball here, right? But bear with me.

In planets, when they talk about planets being in the Goldilocks zone, they mean it's between water freezing and water boiling, right? So you can have life when there's water, but you can't have life when it's steam. In general, that's where they—yes, I know that's possible—but let's say you've got that zone. If the water's frozen, it's probably very difficult to have life. If the water's steam, then it's very difficult to have life. So what is the zone within which it's just right? That's the Goldilocks zone. You can go look up the story, the fable, later.

The idea is that we need to figure out not just our WIP limit for the whole system, but our WIP limit for individual stages in the system. The WIP limit for the individual stages, if we create individual stages, will probably inform the WIP limit for the overall system, right? Because you just add them up, and that's the WIP limit for the whole system. 

So, the ideal WIP limit, right? There is an ideal WIP limit. If everything is perfect, the ideal WIP limit is one. The most optimal WIP limit in flow is one single piece flow, right? But that only works when our system is perfect, when it operates exactly like we expect, in the timing we expect, when all of those things are absolutely perfect. 

The WIP limit is one. The thing I usually use to visualise that is I do a version of the coin game with teams. If you've not done the coin game, it's a great exercise where you give a group of people 20 coins. They flip them all to heads, and then it's a batch size exercise, right? So they flip them all to heads, and then they have to flip them all to tails, pass to the next person, and they have to flip them all to tails, pass them to the next person. So you've got this simulation of a production line, right? Something happens in this stage, the next stage happens, something happens there, next stage.

In an ideal world, you just want one flip, the coin, move it on, flip the coin, move it on, flip the coin, move it on, and you'll have the maximum number of coins going in action at any point in time. Does that make sense? Right? If you've got a batch size of 20 and you've got 20 coins and you've got 10 people in a row, you've got one person working and nine people waiting all the time, the whole time. If you do a batch size of one, you've got 10 people working, and you'll get the fastest delivery of the first unit of work and the fastest delivery of all the units of work.

Okay, but the world isn't made up of flipping coins, right? We're not—that's not what we're doing all day. We are writing code, we're solving problems, we're painting pictures, we're waiting on customers to reply. There's all sorts of things that make what we do a nonlinear thing, not a thing that just happens at once. So you're going to have to figure out for each of those columns what the most optimal WIP limit is based on your ability to keep things moving and the need to identify when there's problems.

If we make the WIP limit 100 in every column, it's going to be difficult to identify problems because we'll maybe never hit it. We'll never hit the WIP limit. We deliberately want to constrain the work to slightly less than we can do so that we create slack in the system that enables us to see more of what's going on, ask more interesting questions, and figure out do we need to increase this or reduce this one. Those are the types of discussions that we want to have.

Whenever we run workshops where we run simulations around this, that's the kind of conversations that people have in the groups. Who should we create the WIP limit bigger? Yeah, but if we create the WIP limit bigger, then there'll be more stuff in here, and there'll be more pressure on this part of the system. The people in the groups are then able to visualise those things and see the impact of those things, which is the whole point of a Kanban strategy—that everybody in the system understands the system that you've created better, and it allows them all to have more rational, more interesting conversations about how the system goes together and how we might change it in order to improve it or attempt to improve it, and then the impact of those improvements. You're able to monitor them.

That is really picking WIP limits. Just make up some numbers at the start, pick stuff, and see what works. Increase them if they're too small, make them smaller if they're too big, and figure out where that optimal level is. If you're really searching for Martin, what would you recommend as our WIP limit? I would say in any stage, as a starting point, if you have to have a Martin says we should do it this way, if you have to have that, then pick one less than the number of people that you have performing an activity in that area. So if you have four people, pick three as your WIP limit and see how you go.

If you're struggling to create WIP limits so that you can see what's going on in your system, then we can help you. We provide world-class Kanban training from Pro Kan, as well as consulting and coaching for teams trying to implement Kanban strategy. If you're a Scrum team, then we always recommend bringing in flow metrics as a complimentary practice and also have Kanban classes from Scrum.org.