So the question is what's the most valuable thing I've learned training people? I think it's that there's two things that are kind of related. One is no matter where you are in the world, everybody's got the same problems when they're implementing Agile, when they're trying to do Scrum, when they're trying to think about the implications of empiricism and a value focus on their organisation. Everybody runs into exactly the same walls. Everybody runs in Texas; they think their walls are unique, but everyone runs into the same walls.

But the value that I find for me is I love the engagement that I get in multicultural, multi-time zone, multi-country training events much more than I do from single country events because I feel like there's a little bit of echo chamber in a single country event that there aren't as many different ideas generated. I think it kind of demonstrates that value in globalisation, right? You're teaching a class and you've got, you know, even five people from the US, five people from the UK, and they're bouncing off each other. Then that one student that's from Eastern Europe will say, "But what about this type of thing?" Oh, never thought of that, right? Because it's not even within their sphere of experience.

And those ideas coming in, I think, helped me appreciate the diversity of cultures, but it also results in a better training experience for the students because they get more conversation, more topics, more—disagreement's not the right word—but more ideas coming in there. And for me, that's the most valuable.