Naked agility can be your partner in creating engineering excellence and technical leadership within your organisation. In the last few videos, we've talked about a number of different ways or things that we focus on that are part of that story. We talked about that high cost of bad quality, of mediocre product—right? Not even mediocre, poor quality product. There's lots of poor quality products out there that have a massive cost, particularly in your brand recognition. Right? People don't want to use products that they have an image in their head to be of poor quality.

We talked a lot about shifting left and the different components that we would shift left. Not just testing and test automation, but continuous integration, continuous delivery. We talked about user experience shifting left. We talked about security shifting left, architecture shifting left. All of these things need to move as close to the engineering team that's making the decisions, the people that are making the decisions and doing the work. All of those things, those skills, those capabilities, those need to be built up in those teams in order for you to move towards this idea of engineering excellence.

Right? We need to not manage technical debt but pay it back. Deal with it. Deal with the technical debt when it happens. Own up to it when we make a mistake. Be transparent and open about what the problem was and what we're going to do about it. Build that culture of quality. Build that culture of engineering excellence within our organisation. Your purpose is creating value for your customers. Our purpose is value creation for you through building the technical leadership and engineering excellence that enables your value creation. And that's what naked agility can help you with.