So effective product ownership focuses on product management. There's a kind of misconception that we're in some way replacing product management with product ownership or that they're different things. Right? They're absolutely not; they're exactly the same thing. 

This is where product ownership, within the context of Scrum, comes in. I definitely want to disambiguate between when I'm talking about the product owner. I'm talking about the product owner as defined within the context of Scrum and the Scrum guides, not the job title or role that your organisation has created and added other baggage that is nothing to do with those things. 

You might have a product owner within your organisation, and it says in the job description, "also responsible for writing reports for management," "also responsible for managing the product," or "the project," right? Or other stuff that is not what I'm talking about. The product owner is an accountability within the context of Scrum. That's it. It defines that the product owner needs to be somebody that the organisation respects and that is accountable for the maximisation of value delivered from the work of the Scrum team. 

That's the product owner. The product owner's job title is not "product owner." That's a made-up organisational misunderstanding of moving towards Scrum. There shouldn't be job titles in your organisation that are "product owner" or "Scrum Master." Those should not exist. 

You're in product management. If we take product management as a big wrapper of all of the things that need to be done in order to manage a product, we're shifting the focus of that from a long-term, maybe we do a two-yearly delivery cycle, towards a very short delivery cycle. If we're doing Scrum, there are some accountabilities that Scrum brings for those people that are doing product management. 

One could say that the product owner is an aspect of existing product management that probably should always have been there in the first place but maybe wasn't necessarily quantified enough to make it a viable thing. In the past, organisations have been able to skate by without having that clear vision, goal, and value focus. 

Organisations were able to skate by; perhaps they had deep coffers built up from some product that didn't have any competitors that they made, and now we have lots of money, so we actually, you know, we don't need to maximise; we just need to get by. Or for other reasons, right? But as we move towards that shorter iterative cycle, it becomes more important to focus on value and less important to focus on more stuff. 

We're not maximising productivity; we're not maximising the number of items we deliver per timeframe. We kind of are, but we're not trying to deliver more stuff; we're trying to deliver more valuable stuff. In order to deliver more valuable stuff rather than just more stuff, we need to understand what value is. To understand what value is, we need to understand what direction the organisation's going, and that's the foundation of product management. 

Product ownership is an accountability in Scrum. I think I've said this before: Scrum is like a mirror. The mirror just reflects what you're doing and says, "Why can't you do this thing that we think you should need?" So the accountability of the product owner being maximising the value of the work done by the Scrum team—why can't you do that? What's inhibiting your ability to do that? That's why the product owner accountability exists. 

It's not a job title; it's not a job role; it's an accountability that forces product management to reflect on why they can't manage the product in this new context. Because we're moving from those long-term deliveries towards shorter and shorter deliveries for all products across all industries. Part of the reason for that is we want to take advantage of opportunities in the market and deal with surprises that come from the market, right? Our environment or our business. 

In order to take advantage of them, we need to do so more quickly than a competitor can come along and take advantage of them, or a new business can start up and take advantage of them. Otherwise, we're too late to the party. So in order to do that, we need to move faster. What is the amount of time that your business needs to go around that cycle of re-evaluating what we're doing? That's the cycle you need to be on. 

How quickly does your market change? Most of us don't exist in static markets; we exist in volatile markets that are always changing. The niches that our organisation has grown to fit are growing and contracting on a regular basis. If they're growing and contracting on a regular basis and you're in one niche, you're going to feel that pain on that cycle. 

That's something that sometimes my business suffers from, where you've got that cycle of organisations having their flesh with cash, so they're looking to train people and increase skills, so our training business goes up. Then you have an economic downturn, and our training business drops. That's the ebb and flow of any one business. 

So how do you mitigate that? Well, as a product owner or product manager, you need to be thinking about how do we open out new markets? All of the ebbs and flows of those different markets operate on different cycles so that we maintain our ability to operate as a business without loss by divesting our interests into lots of different areas. 

Product management at a big organisational level is thinking about how do we get into new markets? How do we get those new stories in? The product owner's accountability is just to maximise the value of the work done by the team. So if we're going to have a bunch of teams, we should maximise the value of the work that they're actually doing. 

In doing that, maximising the value return on investment that we get from the work that we do, we should be able to adapt to those changing needs in the market, do the product management thing. Product management includes portfolio; that's part of it. Scrum is part of it because it's managing the work done by the Scrum team. 

That's part of that story, creating little social technology that allows you to manage that, but it's within that wider context. The idea is that we have a holistic approach to product management, of which the product owner is just an accountability, a part of that story. We need to create a shared understanding with vision, goals, and value for the direction that we're going so that all of these self-organising teams can work together towards that common goal. 

That's how we achieve that common goal. We're using shorter iterations, particularly Scrum in this context, if we're talking about the product owner, for frequent product validation through inspection and adaptation. Scrum is founded on empiricism. We need to have regular tests to validate our hypothesis that a feature is going to advance value. 

That is why saying that product ownership—how does product ownership build on the foundation of agile product management—is kind of like the reverse of the story. It's actually how does product ownership enable product management to maximise the value that we're trying to create.