So the question is, what's the most common mistake or mistakes in sprint planning? And let's start with the purpose, right? Sprint planning's purpose is to plan the sprint. Sounds reductive, right? But its purpose is to plan the sprint. What I would expect to see happen there is that we're going to walk into sprint planning with an ordered, well understood product backlog as input. We're probably already gonna have an idea of what your sprint goal is going to be, right? Because you know what your product goal is going to be. You've probably just discussed it at your review with your stakeholders and what's next, right? And the team probably already has an understanding of all the other work that they're gonna have to bring into the sprint as well as working on the sprint goal. 

So then the purpose of the sprint is to decide what it is we're doing, how much we think we can do, and what does that look like? So one of the big mistakes that teams make is not having an ordered, understood product backlog walking into sprint planning. It is the fundamental mistake that almost every team that I work with runs into at some point and that's that they're taking on work because they're told to take on work, not because they actually understand that work. 

If you're, a good indication of this is if your team is sitting doing planning poker during sprint planning, you're doing it wrong. You should not be sitting doing planning poker like we don't understand this thing. What is it? That's too late. That's far too late. If you walk into sprint planning and you pull something off the product backlog and you're looking at it and the team has never seen it before, they've got no clue what this thing is and they suddenly realise that you need a firewall change and all ops take six weeks to implement a firewall change, you're just screwed already, right? You can't bring that into this sprint. You need to know about that six weeks ago. That's what refinement's for. 

Refinement is where you push off the understanding of the work, that any estimation you want to do, although estimation is not required by Scrum, right? Sizing, right? All the sizing you're going to do, the understanding of what's in your product backlog, all comes before sprint planning. And when you walk into sprint planning, it's a case of planning the sprint, not planning all the stuff that you should have planned already before you got there, right? 

So that's one of the biggest mistakes that I see teams making is not already understanding stuff. I'm gonna caveat and say, somebody will say, but what if we just received feedback from the stakeholders at sprint review and there's a bunch of unknown stuff that comes into sprint planning? Awesome. We're going to have a long sprint planning this sprint, right? That's where we might see planning poker or other estimation techniques or whatever you need in order to gain understanding because some surprise happened, right? There was a surprise and we need to deal with that surprise. 

If every sprint is a surprise you're not doing it right, right? You're absolutely not doing it right. You need to minimise the chance of surprise. There are some products out there where they get more surprises than other products. That's cool, right? Roll with it. It's what works best for you. You're trying to maximise your effectiveness as a team. So we maximise the value that we deliver to the customer. And for that, we need to understand the work that we're doing. We need to understand as best we can the work that is coming towards us so that when we get into sprint planning, we can have a conversation about what we're working on this sprint, right? 

That's what we're working on this sprint is what comes into sprint planning and ends up in your sprint backlog and that's what you're gonna do. But during every sprint, you are also working on refinement. You're also refining things in the product backlog. You're also gaining more understanding of things that you don't know yet. So when you're planning your sprint, you also, that's the other thing that teams don't take into account, you also need to carve out how much time do we need to spend understanding the surprises and the unknown in the future so that the next sprint isn't going to be yet another surprise, and the sprint after that isn't going to be yet another surprise, okay? 

That's why doing too much is another thing. That taking on too much in the sprint, right? Because if you take on too much in the sprint, you're like, oh, well, we don't have time to do all this refinement, right? Because we're doing all this stuff and we've taken on too much and we're really struggling and we're having to cut corners and we're really... And then we get to the next sprint planning and we're like, oh, we don't understand anything that's in our product backlog. Okay, we're screwed again. Okay, we've got to do the same thing again. And it's like a death cycle. 

You also find that teams that end up in that position often don't meet their sprint goal. So now they're unhappy that they've not met their sprint goal because that's supposed to be a thing, right? So you've got a team that continuously and repeatedly is unable to meet the things that they've been asked to commit to every single sprint. How happy do you think that team is going to be? Not happy at all, right? Do happy, successful teams make great products, or do sad, unhappy teams make great products? I would suggest that sad, unhappy teams do not make great products. You don't want sad, unhappy teams so stop creating them. 

Stop building a situation where you have these sad, unhappy teams because they're unable to continuously and repeatedly unable to meet the expectations that they're setting for themselves but other people are setting for them as well. Stop doing that shit, that's really bad, right? That, I mean, that's sprint planning is supposed to set that purpose, set the purpose for the sprint. Why are we doing this sprint? What are we going to do? How are we going to do it? And you've already failed if you walk into the sprint and you don't know the answer to most of those things already, right? Other than surprises, right? 

Which I'm fully accepting you could walk into a sprint and a great example of that is imagine you were working on the Microsoft Teams team, right? Building Microsoft Teams, and you walk into your first sprint planning after lockdown from COVID, and you're told immediately that we've just gone from, I don't know, 150,000 simultaneous users to 500,000 simultaneous users practically overnight, and that our systems are starting to crumble, right? That's where you throw out everything you thought you already knew, and you're gonna start again, and perhaps they spent 90% of that sprint refining what's next and only a little bit working on the stuff they can right sprint planning is all about figuring out what it is you need to do next, but don't leave it too late. Get your refinement in there first. 

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments. And if you want to have a chat about this or anything else Agile Scrum or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.