So I get a lot of questions about the difference between traditional management versus evidence-based management. I'm not sure the term traditional applies. It's interesting; I had a book on evidence-based management practices that I gave to my father about 10 years ago when he was asking me what the heck it is that I do. I gave him this book, Radical Management, and he read the book and he said, "Oh, that's what I've been doing for the last 40 years in my company." That's the type of things, trying to change the organization and move people in a particular direction and do all those things. 

So maybe that's why traditional, like if people have been doing it 40 years ago, 80 years ago, then it's the common management, the normal way people approach things. Evidence-based management is hard. If we're talking about the differences between traditional, classic, the way most people do things, common cause, right? Evidence-based management is hard. Evidence-based management is we have to collect data, we have to read the data, and we have to make informed decisions. 

Most management decisions are made one of two ways: make it up. I'm just going to decide. I'm the manager, I'm the boss, I will decide, and I make a decision, right? Or I ask somebody more senior to me to make the decision, right? So escalation-based decision making. Both are bad. We shouldn't be making decisions on multi-million dollar things based on, or even smaller than that, right? But based on just making it up. We want to be asking, "Why are we doing this thing? What do we hope the outcome's going to be? And how are we going to measure it?" 

We want evidence to know. That's why when we're in court, we don't make decisions based on how we feel today, right? We collect a bunch of evidence, we present that evidence to a group of people, and a group of people analyse that evidence, including, you know, not evidence parts as well, how they feel about it, how they think about it, and they put it together into something that is a coherent decision. And that's what we would like to see in management today. 

Most managers trying to do evidence-based decision making, unfortunately, the evidence that they choose to accept is generally whatever the easiest data is to collect. Most of that revolves around metrics, right? Original estimate, actuals, how far off course are we? People talk about scope creep. Well, you said you were going to do this and it's changed to this; therefore, the scope has changed. 

That traditional look at data is very... what's a good way to describe it? Vanity metrics. That's the expression I've not used in a while. Vanity metrics are the biggest part of this. I want to create metrics. For me as a manager, I want to have metrics that make me look good. I want to keep my job. I want to perhaps get promoted. So I want to create metrics that make me look good. That would be nice. So that's the ones I'm going to focus on. That's the ones I'm going to judge my people that report to me by, is the metrics that I think make me look good. 

Unfortunately, metrics that make you look good are suboptimal metrics. We're looking at one part of the puzzle. Me, right? Me as a manager, I'm looking at one part of the puzzle and I'm trying to make a decision on how I measure things based on one part of the puzzle. But is my decision going to be good for the whole thing, for the whole organization, for the whole product or organization team, whatever it is? At whatever level you're playing at, is that going to be the right metric that's going to help progress the outcomes, the impacts, the goals that we're trying to have as an organization, the vision? Or is it just making me look good? 

That's a suboptimal metric. We're not looking at the whole system, just part of the system. And that's really common. I see that with story points and velocity, right? Ridiculous metrics to look at outside of the context of internal to the team. Story points and velocity can be useful inside of a team. Actually, I would maybe disagree with my own statement there, but they might be useful within that context. But outside of the team, no use whatsoever. 

Any manager that makes a decision based on velocity, any product owner that makes a decision based on velocity, you know, sum of story points per sprint or sum of tasks, whatever it is, it's just mental. That's vanity metrics. We're trying to massage the metrics to make ourselves look good. And that's really the big difference between traditional management and evidence-based management. Evidence-based management is about the evidence. We're going to collect the evidence, we're going to try and validate that evidence, right? Is it good evidence or is it bad evidence? And then we're going to try and make decisions based on it rather than just making stuff up.