Have you ever encountered the product owner as an agile Bandit? I have. I worked with a product owner quite some years ago that believed that if every single person on the team just followed their detailed plan and Gantt chart with start times and end times for all of the tasks, if everybody just followed that, everything would work out perfectly. And the only reason it doesn't work out perfectly is because people don't follow his plan. 

That is an agile Bandit. A product owner is not a project manager. They're not looking at task to time; they're focused on goals and outcomes and what is it we're trying to achieve. And we've hired these super smart people to be able to deliver these amazing products. A product owner should be focused on vision, value, and validation. Where is it we're going? What is it we get out of it? And have we managed to actually get there? 

In order for a product owner to focus on those things, they perhaps need to let go of some of the things that they've used in the past and focus instead on enabling the team, the people around the product, to be an engaged, happy group of people. Have you ever met a sad, unhappy group of people that made amazing products or did amazing things as a team? I bet you haven't, because they don't exist. Happy, engaged people build great products. 

If you've got a product owner who's focused, laser focused on task and work breakdown, you are not going to have a happy, engaged team that is connected to the story that we're trying to tell as a product. That person is an agile Bandit; they shouldn't be a product owner at all. It was just terrible. You should see the team. The team was just in a complete mess. They just didn't care. All they cared about was delivering stuff. 

"I've got these things on my task list. I need to deliver these things or I'm going to be in trouble from the product owner." There was no team. So don't destroy your team with agile banditry as a product owner. Stop it. If you're being ambushed by agile bandits in your organisation, then my team at Naked Agility can help you, or we can help you find somebody who can. You can set up a no-obligation consultation using the links below. Don't forget to like and subscribe if you enjoyed the video.