The next harbinger of the agile apocalypse is war. War manifests in organisations as a distrust. It manifests as politics. It manifests as disagreement and effectively results in conflict. There are multiple levels of conflict that happen within your organisation. You might start with just a simple dispute, right? We're not sure how to do something; we're having a conversation. Those things are kind of easy, easier to work through.

As you move up, you get to more conflict, more things happening, more disagreement. It becomes not about what we can do to move forward, but it becomes what I can do to make you lose. That's when you transition from a collaborative environment where you do want constructive disagreement. You want constructive arguments because I firmly believe that arguments and discussion and debate are like the flint on steel that generate the sparks of ideas that start the fires in your organisation that enact change, that enact new products, enact new ideas.

You need some level of conflict within your organisation, but as soon as it moves to the point where I win and you lose, where my job becomes not winning but making sure you lose because I don't like what you're doing, that's when it escalates into all-out war. It becomes not about collaboratively moving forward; it becomes about winning. Winning isn't always the right answer.

Don't let your organisation degenerate into war. Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else, agile, scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.
