Hi, my name is Martin Intuit. I'm the owner at Naked Agility and I'm a professional Scrum trainer and Microsoft MVP. I'd like to talk to you about professional agile leadership training from Scrum de-torque.

Professional Agile Leadership Essentials is a two-day hands-on workshop that uses a combination of instruction and hands-on exercises to help managers and other leaders who work directly with agile teams understand how best to support, guide and coach their teams to improve their agile capabilities. The workshop provides a foundation for the role that leaders play in creating the conditions for a successful agile evolution. Leaders and managers are critical enablers in helping their organizations be successful.

Yet the role of leaders and managers in an agile organization can be quite different from what they are used to. Now, this workshop uses a combination of instruction and team-based exercises to help participants learn how to form and support agile teams to achieve better results and how to lead the cultural and behavioral changes that organizations must make to reap the benefits of an agile product delivery approach.

Becoming an agile organization is a profound evolution that requires senior leaders, middle managers and agile team members to change the way they organize their work, manage their work and measure the results of their work. Agile teams cannot do this on their own; they need help from the entire organization. The changes for all involved are profound, but so are the results when everyone's goal and way of working are aligned.

To succeed in a changing world, organizations need to become more agile, more responsive to customer needs and market changes. This workshop will equip leaders and managers to help their organizations change by providing participants with an understanding of how agility can help you improve your organization's performance, an understanding of how you as a manager or leader can help your organization achieve the benefits of agility, an understanding of how culture and values influence your organization's ability to reap the benefits of agility, practical skills for helping to guide and coach agile teams and to help them remove impediments, and an understanding of how to measure the benefits and impacts of agility in your organization.

By the end of this class, you will understand where and how agility can help your organization improve by addressing challenges you can solve in no other way. You will also understand how agile teams work and what you as a manager or leader can do to help them improve. You will also be able to qualify the benefits of improving the agility of your organization through concrete measures.

This class can be delivered on-site or as a live virtual classroom in a specific organization to help its leaders understand their important role in evolving their organization or in a public class setting.