If you want to build teams and an organisation that can deliver the highest possible value for the investment that you're taking, maximise that return on investment for your business, then Naked Agility can help you in advising and coaching at any level in your organisation. Be it team members who are actually doing the work in the engineering practices that they're doing, all the way up through to you as a CTO or CEO trying to understand hypothesis-driven practices, trying to understand which features should we bring in, which features should we not, how do we budget across our engineering practices organisation so that we maximise a return on investment and maximise the care within which the people doing the work take of their time and the spend that they are making, which is hugely important.

Understanding that context enables the highest quality of work. Right, we want, if we're building software products, regardless of whether that's our main business or whether it's a side hustle for our business, right, it's an enabler for our business. We want to build products of the highest possible quality. Every product that we build, every line of code that is written by the people in our teams is an organisational asset. Right, these are things that provide, it's like buying a building, it's infrastructure. Right, it's stuff that you've built, that you've invested in, that you get a return on investment on, that you get a continuous return on. Are they of the highest quality?

If you bought a building as a leadership in an organisation, you're going to do a lot of due diligence, and the due diligence for that is well known. When it's software, there's a lot of opacity. There's the stuff the magic wizards do that build the software, and we don't often understand all of the ramifications of that. So we need to have some technical expertise on hand, whether it be in-house or bringing somebody in that helps us understand some of those relationships and some of those things that connect to each other in order to maximise the value that our business is able to bring to market.