So the question was what are immersive training courses and I think that's a great question because there's been a lot of buzz around immersive training classes. What's the difference between the different types of classes? I think the traditional class format has always been the two full days, right? Part of that is because if you're going to get a whole bunch of people together for a training class, you want to in a small amount of time as possible so that you're not paying for hotels, you're not paying for people travelling around. However it is you're getting those people into that place. Plus if they're going to be out of the office for those days and they've got to travel to the training location, you only want them doing it twice. You don't want them doing it four half days, right?

But with the virtual space, I moved all of my classes to four half days, which was kind of a start of this process. The advantage to four half days initially was twofold. One is you can have people are only out half days, right? So they could still get work done in the afternoons or the mornings, however you're running it. But also I tried introducing activities, so more of the flipped learning experience. The first step towards the immersive experience and in the flipped learning experience, people get small assignments to do where they're reading, writing, watching content. So that kind of interactive, much more interactive experience, self-paced learning as well as the immersive experience.

But the way that's also not as good for the way people learn, right? It's better than to fill this. Flipped learning is better, but what's even better is if you as a participant to a class are able to spend some time learning something and then able to go try and implement it in your real world and then come back around and share that experience with other people who have tried the same thing in their companies or in the same company, right? And then learn some more stuff and then go try that new stuff in your organisation, in your company.

So the immersive learning experience instead of being at four half days, so 16 hours, what I've been doing is four half days with probably about two hours of additional possible material each day. Is moving it to eight half days over eight weeks, so you do one session a week. At the end of that session, the participants are given an assignment to do in their organisation. So we're starting with the product owner class, so they're maybe given an assignment to try and do something a little bit differently, figure out maybe try and figure out what is value to your organisation, right? 

And that might be the first one, that might even be one of the assignments, right? So go to figure out that in your company. So then when we come back, we probably spend the first part of the next session talking about what did they discover? What did they discover the their organisation values? How does that change the way they think about the product and what it is they're creating? Did they find that maybe their company doesn't understand what value is and they had to come up with something brand new to figure out what value is and then how do you test that within your organisation? So all those kind of questions and discussions.

And I think there's two huge, that different but both equally great value propositions between a private class and a public class, right? Because in a private class, everybody in the room is from the same company, so they can share the same dirty laundry, right? And perhaps have conversations about, "Oh, but I tried this with these people I'm working with and that worked great." And then they can maybe a little bit more sharing, right? So that's a good value proposition.

But I think the public value proposition is also good as well, right? You've got 12 people in the class, each of the 12 people have gone off into their own company and tried their own thing and then they're bringing back these very different experiences because it's different companies and then sharing them with each other. And what could we do differently? And, "Oh yeah, I've got somebody in my company who's just like that person in yours. Perhaps we could work together to figure out how we do that."

So that is like the progression of the flipped learning that you don't just have some activities that are offline learning, like self-paced online stuff. I'm going to read some stuff, I'm going to watch some videos, but I've actually got a production assignment. I'm going to go into my organisation, try to do something in a particular way that's to do with the things that we've been talking about in the class and then come back and pull it all together with the other people in my class who have been learning the same thing. That would be the immersive learning experience.

Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow and subscribe. I always reply to comments and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else agile, scrum or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.