One of the seven deadly sins of agile is lust. Loads of organisations are talking about agile transformation, digital transformation, whatever transformation. They want something different because they've realised that the markets have changed. Right, it's taken them a long time to realise the markets have changed. They changed years ago. Right, in fact, the 1930s was when the market started to change. The 1970s, they were totally changed, and it's taken until now for a lot of companies to actually realise, "Oh, stuff's changed. What's going on?" Right, why isn't our old processes and systems working? 

So now they're looking around for something new. They've got that, I was going to say, seven-year itch, right? But it's the 70E itch, and they're looking around for new processes and practices that they can use. They see this agile thing doing really well, and they want it. Right, they want it desperately, and they don't really want to do the work for it. They just want to buy it. I think there must be a use for that, but I think I'll stay away from it. They just want to buy this thing. They don't want to actually spend the effort and the time and the energy to figure out what it means for them and their business. They just want somebody else to come in and install it. They just want to pay somebody to come in and do it for them. Right, that's what they want to do.

And that's why you see a lot of organisations bringing in, you know, the big four consulting companies. You see McKinsey and Accenture and Boston Consulting Group coming in, giving advice. But the problem is they're giving advice based on all of these other big organisational transformations. There is no precedent within your organisation for agile. You can't just look at what somebody else is doing and lust after it and bring it into your organisation. You need to build your own unique way of doing things over time and actually do the work to get there. 

And that's why you can't just lust after this agile thing. You need to do the work to bring it into your organisation. Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow, and subscribe. I always reply to comments, and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else, agile, scrum, or DevOps, then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.