So the question is an overview of immersive learning experience. And I think we need to start with what the heck is immersive learning, right? Because that's just a word that somebody's using. But in the way I'm describing it and the way scrum.org describes it, right? Immersive learning is taking the traditional model, right? Is that you do a two full day class or it's four half days consecutively. That's the kind of traditional model. 

In the immersive learning approach, what we're trying to do is connect more the things that we're talking about in the class to the participants' real world, right? So we want to connect them with the story that they're telling in their business rather than our made up story. Because in most of the classes, especially public ones, we have to use case studies so that everybody's talking about the same topic so that we can create those relationships. 

But in an immersive class, which we can connect it to their real world and we have more time to talk about and connect it to each individual person's real world, right? Even if they're from multiple companies. So what we're gonna do in the immersive class is instead of doing consecutive days or short four half days, we're going to break it up into more sessions, because we're gonna make each of the four half day sessions has more stuff in it now. 

So instead of just doing the content and then they go home or doing the content and here's some homework to read, it's the first part of the session is we're going to debrief the previous assignment, right? So obviously in the first session we're not going to have one, but we're going to debrief the previous assignment. That's probably an hour to an hour and a half right that's that's going to be quite a lot of time if you've got six people in the class we want to hear from everybody talk about the problems we're going to discuss it how it went and then we're going to have some some some learning we're going to learn something as well right we're going to talk about some new stuff in that and then we're going to give out an assignment for the next week. 

And that assignment is something that you can do in your real company, something you can go back and practice, right, for the next week, right? What's the difference between musicians and martial art? What's the similarity between musicians and martial artists? They practice, right? So we need time to practice, and this is part of that story, and you can practice within your organization by bringing in your real stuff. So it might be, I don't know, I'm trying to think of what an assignment might be. An assignment might be figuring out in your organization. I'm being very high level here, but figuring out in your organization what does value mean to your business. 

If you're a product owner, class, what does value mean to your business? Your business might not even know just now. So as part of that assignment, we would give you some help, some pointers, maybe some workshops you can run in your organisation to try and figure out what that information is and what it means. And the answer might be your business doesn't know, right? That might be what you come back with the next week. So then we can have a discussion about, well, what else can you do to figure it out? And that's how we're connecting that story back. 

So this means, because we've got this debrief part, that we've got the four hour session that we were just doing, you know, the content for the course, means we've got less time, probably only half the time to do new content. So it's spread out over a longer period of time. So instead of four half days, I think the PSM is seven half days, done one a week. So that gives you a week's worth of time, should be five business days or four business days, right? To be able to practice that or try the thing that you're going to do. 

But each of them's different. Each of the classes is different. So the APS, I think is 10 weeks. I think the PSPO is eight weeks. It depends on how the exercises break down within it, but it is that different format, right? And it's different from the traditional format because it makes those connections. That is the point there. 

And the reason I really like this format is because I feel like it will give more value to the students. Lots of people come into classes and they leave, especially the two full day classes, they leave with their brains full of knowledge and they're going to remember 10% two weeks from now. They're not really going to connect it back to the way they work. How are they going to apply it? Do they even understand how to apply it within their organisation? Within their, perhaps, corporate context, right? With all of the corporate rules that they have. How do they then get questions answered? 

So this format really allows us to directly connect what we're talking about back to real things in every participant's company. That's why I think this format is great. Thanks for watching the video. If you enjoyed it, please like, follow and subscribe. I always reply to comments and if you want to have a chat about this or anything else Agile, Scrum or DevOps then please book a coffee with me through Naked Agility.